Chao, who serves as team physician for the San Diego Chargers, says that he sees ''a lot of injuries, a lot of guys playing with pain. But if I were a betting man, and you showed me Landis's X-rays, I would bet my house that he could not be competitive in the Tour de France. This is the hip of a guy who, if he were just a weekend warrior, would have problems with everyday living. But to be a top athlete? Where a 1 percent performance loss is a big deal? No way.'' As for Landis, he responds to the question in his customary fashion, which is to question it. ''Well, I'm doing it, so it must be possible,'' he said, his face flashing into the sharp, faintly incredulous expression he often gets when he talks about his hip. ''All the doctors have ever been able to tell me is that I should get a replacement when the pain gets to be too much. O.K., that sounds fine, but how much is too much? Can anybody tell me that? How much is too much?''
''Two people in the same office, and I really respect them both,'' Ms. McCreary said. ''They have no idea. There's nothing they can point to except for my age.'' Dr. Aydin M. Arici, director of reproductive endocrinology and infertility at the Yale School of Medicine, said, ''Everybody would agree there's no agreement.'' Recurrent miscarriages have many causes, Dr. Arici said. ''For two-thirds of the known causes,'' he said, ''there is a specific treatment. Then you have about 40 percent where you don't know exactly what has caused it. So there are some empirically unproven treatments out there that are highly debatable.'' One theory explaining why some women repeatedly miscarry is that the immune system somehow fails to recognize and protect a pregnancy, and instead mounts antibodies to attack it. This idea has led doctors to try two treatments intended to to restore normal immune function. One is intravenous immunoglobin therapy, a blood product pooled from thousands of donors and used to regulate abnormal responses of the immune system. The other is lymphocyte immune therapy, which uses blood from a woman's partner to prompt her immune system to recognize a pregnancy.
Human studies are not as consistent as those with animals. In a study reported in the June issue of The Canadian Journal of Applied Physiology, Dr. Clarkson found that compared with women who produce little or no estrogen, those on oral contraceptives, which contain estrogen, experienced less soreness after exercise, suggesting that estrogen does have a protective effect. And at an academic meeting of physiologists and biochemists in April, Dr. Tarnopolsky reported on a study in which men showed greater inflammation, an indicator of stress, two days after exercising, although men and women showed similar muscle tearing immediately after exercise. ''The damage was the same for men and women, but the body's response seemed higher for men,'' Dr. Tarnopolsky said. On the other hand, more recent data collected by Dr. Clarkson showed no differences between men and women in the experience of soreness after repeated muscle extensions. The sex difference in soreness, if it holds up, suggests that women may be able to endure longer exercise sessions than men. ''Women may accumulate less damage over the course of a long event, which would enable them to perform better,'' Dr. Tarnopolsky said.
So fast food is fast in this other sense too: it is to a considerable extent predigested, in effect, and therefore more readily absorbed by the body. But while the widespread acceleration of the Western diet offers us the instant gratification of sugar, in many people (and especially those newly exposed to it) the ''speediness'' of this food overwhelms the insulin response and leads to Type II diabetes. As one nutrition expert put it to me, we're in the middle of ''a national experiment in mainlining glucose.'' To encounter such a diet for the first time, as when people accustomed to a more traditional diet come to America, or when fast food comes to their countries, delivers a shock to the system. Public-health experts call it ''the nutrition transition,'' and it can be deadly. From Complexity to Simplicity. If there is one word that covers nearly all the changes industrialization has made to the food chain, it would be simplification. Chemical fertilizers simplify the chemistry of the soil, which in turn appears to simplify the chemistry of the food grown in that soil. Since the widespread adoption of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers in the 1950s, the nutritional quality of produce in America has, according to U.S.D.A. figures, declined significantly. Some researchers blame the quality of the soil for the decline; others cite the tendency of modern plant breeding to select for industrial qualities like yield rather than nutritional quality. Whichever it is, the trend toward simplification of our food continues on up the chain. Processing foods depletes them of many nutrients, a few of which are then added back in through ''fortification'': folic acid in refined flour, vitamins and minerals in breakfast cereal. But food scientists can add back only the nutrients food scientists recognize as important. What are they overlooking?
Another researcher reported that some studies showed that women who had high levels of DDE, the DDT breakdown product, had more difficulty breast-feeding than others. ''We did see a strong effect of DDE, with women who had the least amount of DDE breast-feeding for 36 weeks on average compared to 9 weeks in the highest group,'' said Dr. Walter Rogan, epidemiologist at the National Institutes for Environmental Health Sciences. Dr. Steingraber said, ''We should be asking how can we get environmental contaminants out of breast milk.'' Since contaminants accumulate over a lifetime, experts say that pregnant and lactating women should limit their exposure. For instance, women should not have lead paint removed from their homes while they are pregnant or breast-feeding. They should not eat fish or seafood from contaminated waterways, like the Hudson River or New York Harbor, because the fish probably contain PCB's. Pesticides and fumes from nail polish remover, paint, paint remover, dry cleaners, gasoline and other chemicals should be avoided, the authorities caution.
It may explain why heart disease is often considered less of a problem for women than for men -- even though more women than men die of it each year, Dr. Nabel said. ''Perhaps in the past cardiologists have focused a lot on the heart and heart attacks and haven't focused sufficiently on strokes,'' Dr. Nabel said. ''Perhaps this will lead cardiologists, neurologists, internists and family practitioners to think more broadly about how cardiovascular disease really affects the heart and the brain,'' she added. Given that both strokes and heart attacks are caused by blood clots in the arteries, it is not immediately clear why aspirin are protective only against strokes in women. The explanation may have something to do with the size of the blood vessels that lead to the brain, which are somewhat smaller than those that lead to the heart, Dr. Buring said. Dr. Buring said recommendations for aspirin use by women who have not had a heart attack or stroke should be reconsidered in light of the new findings. ''We need to look at whether this additional complexity in women should be factored in in some way,'' she said.
The state of the science is not sufficiently advanced and most physicians don't even want to think about the prognosis. They don't even want to formulate what they think is likely to happen to the patient. And this kind of head-in-the-sand response may mean that physicians overestimate, for instance, the efficacy of their treatment. They may prescribe treatments thinking they are going to help patients when actually they may not.  Q. Let's suppose that the doctor has a good idea of what the future holds for a patient's illness. And let's suppose that the prognosis is grim. Should the doctor just blurt it out? Don't some patients want to cling to hope?  A. I am deeply empathetic to the demands and complexities of prognostication. Doctors in a sense find themselves in an impossible situation. The patients expect them to be honest, to be accurate and to be optimistic. You can't be all three. And this speaks to the problem of hope.
A growing body of evidence suggests that aspirin and other drugs that inhibit the same enzyme might protect against other cancers as well, Dr. Hawk said, though ''the most compelling and most consistent evidence involves colon cancer.''
In cloning human embryos and extracting universal stem cells, scientists in South Korea have taken a big step toward a tantalizing goal: growing tailor-made replacement tissues for people who are sick or injured. Imagine new cardiac muscles to restore a heart after a heart attack, insulin-producing cells for diabetics or neurons to stave off Parkinson's disease. But significant scientific barriers lie between this accomplishment and any actual therapy, experts said. Moreover, ethical objections have put such research off-limits to some scientists -- including the many in the United States who rely on federal money -- and lack of investment has felled many companies trying to develop cell-replacement therapies. The South Korean work is a step toward what is called ''therapeutic cloning.'' The work so far is ''proof of concept of cloning but it's not therapeutic yet,'' said Dr. Steven A. Goldman, chief of the division of cell and gene therapy at the University of Rochester Medical Center.
A. It's very rarely used. Most probably, you can find it at some academic centers in big cities. And, of course, for many medications, the research isn't in yet about which genes are important and why. But even where tests have been approved, insurers don't cover all the costs, and that's hindered this from growing. Most prescribers don't understand genetics very well. The fruits of the Human Genome Project have only been out for about five years, and a lot of doctors and pharmacists did their training before that. I've heard people say that medicine won't change until there are major lawsuits against prescribers who fail to use tests to individualize therapy. Q. How have the drug companies responded to the promise of pharmacogenetics? A. Unfortunately, they are not set up for it. The big pharmaceutical companies have a different business model. They make their money from blockbuster drugs that reach millions of people with standardized doses. They don't want their markets to fragment, which is the obvious effect of pharmacogenetics.
''This adds to the body of evidence that frailty is not an inevitable consequence of aging but is due to specific biologic mechanisms,'' he said. ''This adds to evidence that it is a definable syndrome.'' Dr. Ronenn Roubenoff, an associate professor of medicine and nutrition at Tufts and a senior director of molecular medicine at Millennium Pharmaceuticals in Cambridge, Mass., said the findings fitted well with new and unpublished data from a study in Framingham, Mass. Dr. Roubenoff, an investigator in this long-running investigation of the health of more than 5,000 Framingham residents, said increased levels of inflammatory proteins predicted a loss of muscle mass, one signal of frailty. Some people, Dr. Walston and others said, seem to be pushed into a cycle of increasing debilitation, ending in frailty, by a chronic illness like heart disease. Others simply become frail, raising the question, Is frailty preventable? The answer, Dr. Hadley said, is ''we don't know.''
Lauren has hope, Ms. Stanford said, and ''a lot of that hope has to do with stem cell research.'' Some Democrats and scientists contend that the law sought by Mr. Romney would drive from Massachusetts talented researchers and biotechnology companies. Mr. Romney said that one of the 280 biotech companies in the state was conducting embryonic stem cell research and that it had plans to leave the state. Abortion opponents and Roman Catholic groups flocked to Mr. Romney's corner. Debate over the issue will become more pitched next week with a hearing on Mr. Travaglini's bill. Democrats, who say Mr. Romney has his eye on national office, suggested that he was adopting his position to ingratiate himself with social conservatives. ''There is evidence that this administration has a national agenda,'' Mr. Travaglini said. ''One could argue that this is consistent with that evidence.''
Dr. Joseph Sacco's young patient lay gasping for breath; she had advanced AIDS and now she was failing. Assessing her, Dr. Sacco knew her medical options amounted to a question of the lesser of two evils: either the more aggressive ventilator, on which she would probably die, or the more passive morphine, from which she would probably slip into death. But there was also a slender chance that either treatment might help her rally. He also knew that how he presented her options would affect her decision, the feather that would tip the balance of her hope scale. As Dr. Sacco, a palliative care specialist at Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, spoke to the woman on that chilly morning earlier this month, her eyes widened with terror: no intubation. He ordered morphine. He agonized about his approach. ''She's only 23,'' he said later that day. ''Maybe I was too grim. Maybe I was conveying false hopelessness to her. Maybe I just should have said, 'Let's put you on the ventilator.' I may have spun it wrong.''
Nor is there any need for a doctor to take out a stethoscope every year and listen to your heart, to thump your chest each year or look into your eyes, ears and throat. Those time-honored procedures provide no medical benefit for the healthy patient with no symptoms, said Dr. Paul Frame, a member of the task force who has examined evidence for these procedures. Many doctors do a careful physical exam on a patient's first visit, to serve as a baseline, but on subsequent visits, groups like the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality say, patients would be better off if doctors spent their time counseling them on such things as stopping smoking, eating a healthy diet and drinking moderately, using seat belts and having working smoke alarms in their houses. ''When we're spending time doing things that don't potentially benefit people and skipping things that may be of benefit, that's a sign not only of waste but of misplaced priorities,'' said Dr. Russell Harris, an associate professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina and co-director of the prevention program there.
A new genetic test can help predict whether breast cancer will recur, providing a way to help women decide whether they need chemotherapy, researchers here said on Thursday. The test, details of which were presented at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, was not completely accurate, a new study of its effectiveness found. But it represents another step toward ''personalized medicine,'' in which genetic signatures could be used to guide treatments tailored for each patient. Many women whose breast tumor is removed by surgery get tamoxifen therapy but debate whether to also undergo chemotherapy, which can have debilitating effects. Cancer recurs in only 15 percent of such women, but many do get chemotherapy. ''We do give too much chemotherapy in this country,'' said Dr. Melody Cobleigh, professor at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, who took part in previous studies of the genetic test. ''And the reason we do it is because we can't pick out the people who need it.''
Dr. Haseltine's departure in some ways echoes that of J. Craig Venter, who left the top spot at Celera Genomics two years ago as that company turned to drug development and away from genomics. Dr. Venter, however, was clearly pushed out. The two men, once business partners, have since become unfriendly rivals. Both are widely described as brilliant and driven, with big egos and a penchant for the grand statement. Dr. Haseltine, for his part, is also known as a Renaissance man and jet- setter. He lives in both New York and Washington, decorates the company's office with prints of famous artwork, and is married to Gale Hayman, who was the co-founder of the Giorgio boutique in Beverly Hills, Calif. Human Genome Sciences was founded in 1992 as the for-profit partner of a nonprofit institute set up by Dr. Venter to find genes. Dr. Haseltine apparently thought that this would be a shortcut to discovering drugs. His idea seemed vindicated when, in 1993, SmithKline Beecham, now GlaxoSmithKline, paid $125 million for access to Human Genome's genetic database.
''I got into the field 10 years ago, when there was still this lingering idea that psychological factors and gluttony or a lack of willpower were the underlying explanations for why so many people were overweight,'' Dr. Heymsfield said. ''Seven or eight years ago, the first studies came out saying that genetics is very, very important, but at that point most people felt that it would be one or two decades before we went from knowing that fact to a molecular discovery.'' With the discovery of leptin in 1994, Dr. Heymsfield said, ''People were shocked.'' That discovery came when scientists reported that leptin made genetically fat mice stop eating and become thin. The next year, the hormone was found in people. At first many researchers hoped that obesity would turn out to be a simple matter of a leptin deficiency: give the hormone to fat people and they will get thin. But it turned out that overweight people make plenty of leptin.
But even a cursory analysis of the study's methods makes you wonder why anyone would take such a finding seriously, let alone order a Quarter Pounder With Cheese to celebrate it, as many newspaper readers no doubt promptly went out and did. Even the beginner student of nutritionism will immediately spot several flaws: the focus was on ''fat,'' rather than on any particular food, like meat or dairy. So women could comply simply by switching to lower-fat animal products. Also, no distinctions were made between types of fat: women getting their allowable portion of fat from olive oil or fish were lumped together with woman getting their fat from low-fat cheese or chicken breasts or margarine. Why? Because when the study was designed 16 years ago, the whole notion of ''good fats'' was not yet on the scientific scope. Scientists study what scientists can see. But perhaps the biggest flaw in this study, and other studies like it, is that we have no idea what these women were really eating because, like most people when asked about their diet, they lied about it. How do we know this? Deduction. Consider: When the study began, the average participant weighed in at 170 pounds and claimed to be eating 1,800 calories a day. It would take an unusual metabolism to maintain that weight on so little food. And it would take an even freakier metabolism to drop only one or two pounds after getting down to a diet of 1,400 to 1,500 calories a day -- as the women on the ''low-fat'' regimen claimed to have done. Sorry, ladies, but I just don't buy it.
The committee would have discussed the question at its meeting this month, he said, but the meeting was canceled because of the terrorist attacks. Mr. Robertson added that he expected the committee to discuss the letter at its next meeting, in January. Mr. Robertson used the term ''gender variety'' to explain the acceptable uses of the sex selection technique. By that, he said, he meant that a couple who already had a child of one sex could ethically select embryos that would guarantee them that the embryo selected was of the opposite sex. Mr. Robertson wrote that embryo sex selection could be offered for gender variety ''when there is a good reason to think that the couple is fully informed of the risks of the procedure and are counseled about having unrealistic expectations about the behavior of children of the preferred gender.'' The group's previous statement, in 1999, said that selecting embryos solely to have a child of a particular sex ''should be discouraged.''
In programs often known as functional restoration, that is the goal. Patients are trained in strength, flexibility and endurance. They are counseled about their fears of re-injury and about anxiety and depression. It can be difficult to get them back to work, noted Dr. Bigos, of the University of Washington, because many left their jobs on disability and had bitter disputes with their former employers or with insurance companies. ''Usually, lines have been drawn in the sand by one or both sides,'' he said. But success is possible, said Dr. Thomas Mayer, director of a clinic called Pride, for Productive Rehabilitation Institute of Dallas for Ergonomics. Among the 3,500 back patients who entered his one- to two-month program and completed it, almost all returned to work and nearly half went back to their original employer, Dr. Mayer said. ''We deal with it face on,'' Dr. Mayer said. ''What are you going to do for the rest of your life? What are you getting from being disabled? What would you get if you were not disabled?''
The idea of a drug for one race has drawn the concern of several medical ethicists and scientists. Jonathan Kahn, a medical ethicist at Hamline University law school in St. Paul, said BiDil's approval as a black-only drug would give an official ring to the discredited idea that race is a biological category. ''It gives me great concern and pause to be going down this road, because we can't foresee all the bad consequences,'' said Dr. Kahn, who wrote an analysis of BiDil last year in The Yale Journal of Health Policy, Law and Ethics. Scientists know that different people have different responses to medications, and in some cases these have been linked to race. The F.D.A., for example, has said that people of Asian ancestry are more likely than others to get serious side effects from the cholesterol-lowering drug Crestor. But research shows that the underlying genetic variations across races are small.
''I have stiffness,'' she said. ''But the pain is gone.''
In addition to fish consumption, the environmental agency also looked at the risk from regular contact with river-bottom sediment -- for instance, wading barefoot -- over many years, and concluded that the chance of harm straddled the line between acceptable and unacceptable. It found that the risk from contact with the water alone, or the air near the river, was acceptable. General Electric contends that fish ingest PCB's from surface sediment on the river bottom, not from older, buried layers of sediment. As long as no new PCB's are being put in the river, it contends, the risk declines with each passing year. But today's report said that PCB's in the systems of largemouth bass, striped bass, otters, bald eagles and kingfishers, while dropping, still far exceed the levels that are safe to those animals.
Kolata knows this. She touches on reasons that poor people are more likely than rich people to be overweight, all of them environmental. But she treats childhood obesity as virtually inevitable. In addition to the twin and adoption studies, she cites research showing that teaching kids to eat right in school, and serving them leaner lunches, has no effect on their weights. The researchers concluded that the intervention was too limited -- the children's diets needed to change at home as well as at school. But Kolata scoffs at the ''popular solution,'' which is ''not to question the premise but rather to increase the intensity of the intervention.'' Given the rise in obesity, however, is it really credible to put all the blame on our genes -- and ignore the gazillion-dollar food industry? And while it's useful to point out that obese people don't have higher rates of anxiety, depression or mood disorders, that doesn't mean these conditions are never a factor in causing obesity in those who are genetically susceptible to it. As some of the testimony of Kolata's own dieters attests, we eat not just because our appetites drive us to but because our psyches do, in search of both pleasure and relief from pain or stress.
A decade ago, I stood alongside my 99 fellow freshmen as we were welcomed into the ranks of medicine in a ''white coat ceremony.'' Here, on our first day of med school, we were presented with the short white coats that proclaimed us part of the mystery and the discipline of medicine. During that ceremony, the dean said something that was repeated throughout my education: half of what we teach you here is wrong -- unfortunately, we don't know which half. At the time it was hard to believe. Within those walls, in the anatomy lab, in the lecture hall, you feel that you are being shown the secrets of how the body is put together, how it lives, how it works, how it dies. It has the feel of authority and certainty. Like math, it has a feeling of inevitability. But now, as a practicing doctor and teacher of residents, I relive that dean's aphorism daily. Medicine is, and always has been, an evolving discipline. And this necessarily means that what we know about medicine is constantly changing; that medicine is forever putting forth, and simultaneously upending, assumptions (as can be seen in the accompanying chart). This is particularly true at this moment. Virtually all of our medical therapeutic options are being questioned, evaluated and re-evaluated by researchers across the globe. Certainly in this century there will be new genes discovered and inventions developed, but medical progress right now centers on the rapid displacement of old ideas to make room for new knowledge. Medicine, always a fluid and dynamic science, is in the midst of a major growth spurt.
Dr. Freed said he was the first in the United States to offer the treatment, starting in 1988 with a 52-year-old man, who is still alive although, of course, he also still has Parkinson's disease. Dr. Freed continued to offer it to paying patients while he was treating those who were part of the federal study and whose procedures were paid for by the study. He said he considered these other operations research because he experimented with different amounts and placements of fetal cells. He has given fetal cell implants to 27 patients, he said, with the most recent operation last October. Dr. Freed said his group was now implanting less fetal tissue and putting the tissue in a different area of the brain, hoping to avoid the devastating side effects. But, he said it would be a mistake to stop doing the surgery altogether. ''To say that you can't do or shouldn't do human research because the research has uncertain outcome, I think would be a bad decision,'' Dr. Freed said.
That disappointment comes at a time when some experts have been questioning the value of screening tests for other cancers, including breast and ovarian cancers in women, prostate cancer in men, and lung cancer in both sexes. A key issue is whether the tests are finding a lot of tumors that would never become dangerous but cannot be distinguished from tumors that could become deadly, thereby causing many patients to undergo the risk of surgery, radiation or chemotherapy for no good reason. Each test has adherents who believe that early detection does far more good than harm, and critics who are not so sure. This debate underscores the importance of subjecting screening tests to rigorous trials to find whether they help reduce cancer mortality. Many tests have been adopted mostly on faith. But even clinical trials cannot resolve all questions. Mammography has been endorsed by the federal government on the basis of seven large clinical trials, but scientists argue over whether flaws in those studies invalidate the results or merely weaken them.
But Dr. Shine acknowledged that even the best-designed clinical trial can produce misleading data. ''Science is imperfect and dependent on an accumulation of information,'' he said. ''Rather than relying on a single study, we need to draw from the ever-increasing body of knowledge.'' Dr. Leon Eisenberg, a psychiatrist and professor of social medicine at Harvard, believes the scientific community needs to do a better job informing the public about the pitfalls of clinical trials. ''The truth is more elusive than many people think,'' he said. ''Identifying 'the facts' is far from simple. Most of the clinical scientists I know fall into the trap that one more randomized clinical trial will settle a particular question once and for all. I am not so sure they will.'' PERHAPS the best advice one can glean from the morass of conflicting health studies is the importance of establishing a relationship with a well-informed doctor. Findings released through the media can then be discussed and evaluated with physicians who can make decisions based on individual needs. Dr. Catherine DeAngelis, editor of The Journal of the American Medical Association, prescribes a large dose of common sense: ''Nothing is perfect, but the best rule for maintaining good health is everything in moderation, including moderation.''
WITH silicone breast implants back on the market, a debate over follow-up care is roiling the plastic surgery community, even as more women are choosing to have their breasts surgically enlarged. When the Food and Drug Administration decided last November to again allow the use of silicone for breast augmentation, it did so provided that manufacturers instruct doctors to advise patients they will need biannual M.R.I.'s to check for ruptures and should remove the implants if a rupture is detected. But some surgeons are criticizing the recommendations, saying they are bureaucratic and unscientific and that they interfere with their ability to tailor diagnosis and treatment to each patient. Some said they would not recommend the M.R.I.'s, while others said they would follow the recommendations, albeit unenthusiastically. ''The majority of plastic surgeons, even 99 percent of surgeons, would say there are problems with the directions,'' said Dr. Scott L. Spear, chairman of plastic surgery at Georgetown University Hospital. ''They bring a lot of red tape and expense.''
The middle-aged men and women begin arriving before 7 a.m., coming to a trailer in a church parking lot here for screenings that they say could save their lives. The tests are CT scans of the body -- high-speed, highly sensitive X-rays that can find tiny tumors, weak spots on blood vessels that make them bulge out like balloons, and calcified areas that may be indicative of heart disease. Body scans for healthy people were once the exclusive province of the rich, part of the gold-plated annual physical for executives. But with the endorsement of celebrities like Oprah Winfrey and a rush by radiologists, medical centers and entrepreneurs to offer them, the scans are available to the masses. As a result of competition, prices are dropping, from $1,000 or more to a few hundred dollars. New centers are springing up in cities and strip malls across the country. They advertise in newspapers, including The New York Times, on the radio, on billboards and in fliers sent by mail.
Dr. Cawkwell said Pfizer wanted to give the results first to investigators in the trial, which it did a couple of months ago. Then it was preparing a scientific publication to inform a broad range of doctors. But given current concern, she said, the company decided to release the data even before the scientific publication. Dr. Cawkwell said there was no urgency to announce the findings about Bextra when Vioxx was recalled because Pfizer thought that most patients switching off Vioxx would move to Celebrex. But the company is now seeing that a significant number of Vioxx users are moving to Bextra, which had sales of $545 million in the first half of this year, so it made the data public to help patients and physicians decide, she said. In trading yesterday, Pfizer's shares rose 50 cents, closing at $29. Merck was up 40 cents, to $30.90. Dr. Cawkwell said the Bextra results in coronary-bypass patients were not indicative of the risk for the broader population. ''The setting is so unique that it may or may not be applicable,'' she said.
The governing language is found in a decision in 2002 by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Of the nine states in that circuit, seven have laws on medical marijuana. The court stated unambiguously that doctors had a First Amendment right to discuss with patients the possible benefits of marijuana for relief of pain, nausea and other symptoms suffered by people with ailments like cancer, H.I.V. and glaucoma. The court also clearly left open the possibility that doctors could be charged under federal drug statutes. ''If, in making the recommendation,'' the court wrote, ''the physician intends for the patient to use it as the means for obtaining marijuana, as a prescription is used as a means for a patient to obtain a controlled substance, then a physician would be guilty of aiding and abetting the violation of federal law.'' The ruling stemmed from a suit by California physicians and patients after the federal government had threatened legal action against doctors who recommended medical marijuana. The government issued the warnings in 1996, after voters had approved Proposition 215, the initiative that protected the right of patients to use marijuana for medical indications.
''I do see couples that are quite matter-of-fact about it, who feel like they have these wonderful kids and why not share them with the world,'' said Dr. Linda D. Applegarth, director of psychological services at the Center for Reproductive Medicine and Infertility at Weill Medical College of Cornell University. But those couples are not the norm, she said. In her program, about 50 couples in the last five years were interested in donating, yet all but a few have not completed required forms or psychological and medical screening. There has been a slight increase recently because of publicity, but only two sets of embryos are currently ready to be donated. Interestingly, those embryos belong to couples who used either a donated egg or sperm to create them, something that seems to make people more receptive to donating their embryos. ''These couples have already gone through the loss that comes with not having a 100 percent genetic connection to the embryos,'' Dr. Applegarth said. ''And someone donated to them.''
We know now that breast cancer is an extremely complex disease that often spreads invisibly through the body when a breast lump is small. Cancers detected while small may not, in fact, be early. The aggressiveness of a cancer, not just the time when it is discovered, helps determine a woman's fate. What is particularly disconcerting about the current debate over mammography is the inability of biostatisticians to agree on what the data show. Although the use of mammograms for women under 50 has been controversial for decades, the new study questions their value even after 50. The investigators in The Lancet gave weight to two studies, in Canada and in Malmo, Sweden, that are among the most skeptical about mammography. There are others with different results, and uncertainty will persist. What should women and their doctors do as we await more conclusive data? Here is my current strategy. For women under 50 -- those for whom doubts about mammography's value are strongest -- I will continue to encourage individual choice, sharing the data with patients and letting them choose whether to have mammography.  For women 50 to 70, I will continue to recommend yearly mammography. There has simply been too much supportive data for too long to abandon the test now. But I will also be less willing to insist on mammograms for my patients who decline them. At some point, we must be willing to challenge our most basic assumptions about how we fight breast cancer.
''At 57, it's a little late to be starting medical school,'' Mr. Schneider remarked acidly. ''But the burden still falls on me, having to pick among opinions.'' The job of being a modern patient includes not only decision making, of course, but often coordinating doctors, medical records and procedures, as well as negotiating with insurance companies, who are often the ultimate arbiters over which treatment options will be covered. As Ms. Gaines was being treated for cancer she had to wage such a battle. Before she had her diagnosis, her H.M.O. gynecologist laparoscopically removed what appeared to be a cyst on her ovary. But during the procedure, the cyst, which turned out to be a malignant tumor, burst, sending cancer cells into her abdomen. She then wanted to be treated by a specialist, but her insurance plan did not have a gynecological oncologist on its roster. So Ms. Gaines spent months fighting to transfer her care to an out-of-network doctor. Finally the insurers relented, but only after the specialist agreed to perform her surgery at the H.M.O.'s regional hospital, not his own.
Dr. Frederick Naftolin, chairman emeritus of obstetrics and gynecology and reproductive sciences at Yale and national co-principal investigator of the Keeps trial, said the findings of the Women's Health Initiative studies were counterintuitive. ''The relationship between the fall in estrogen and the rise in cardiovascular disease in women is incontrovertible,'' Dr. Naftolin said. ''So why in the world would you not try to find out whether simply maintaining estrogen at the levels of reproductive life could be cardioprotective?'' On the other side, researchers say the cardioprotective theory has been discredited. ''Atherosclerosis starts well before the age of menopause,'' said Dr. Deborah Grady, a principal investigator in the HERS trial. ''On top of that, why would you want a preventive intervention that has a lot of other side effects like blood clots? These people have a theory they don't want to give up on, no matter what.'' Dr. Richard M. Fuchs, a cardiologist and clinical professor of medicine at Weill Medical College of Cornell University in New York, agreed.
In the long run, the best hope for resolving these issues lies in improving our understanding of cancer. Advances in genetic analysis may eventually allow scientists to distinguish between tumors that are potentially deadly and those that will remain harmless. Such advances would help clarify what doctors should do when they find tiny tumors on screening tests. Alternatively, someday treatments may become so good that it will not matter when a tumor is found; they will all be curable. But until that day, patients and their doctors will have to chart a course that feels comfortable to them. Some will choose screening and live with the uncertainty over whether any tumor found really needs treatment. Others will skip the screening and risk dealing with a dangerous tumor later, when its presence becomes inescapable. No expert has the answer to what is essentially a matter of individual choice. It is striking that the wife of a leading skeptic about mammography ignores her husband's doubts and gets an annual mammogram anyway, while the woman friend of a prominent believer in annual mammograms is screened only once every three years despite his urgings. Their loved ones may be experts, but it is the women who will have to live with the consequences of their decisions.
After the graduation ceremony, Dr. Sanford M. Simon, a professor of cellular biophysics, looked proudly at Yu Chen, a graduate who had worked in his lab, and described him and his classmates as the future of science. ''One of the strongest legacies you can leave,'' he said, ''is the new generations you train.''
To Landis's disbelief, he passed. ''What was that guy thinking?'' Landis told me, almost offended at his good fortune. ''At that point, I couldn't walk up stairs without a handrail!'' Temporarily rescued, Landis spent the rest of the winter as he would spend much of the 2005 season: pretending not to hurt. Unable to press hard on the top of the pedal stroke with his right leg, he pedaled harder with his left. To ride his time-trial bike, which required a hunched aerodynamic posture, Landis was forced to ride on the nose of his saddle, a near-proctological position that drew amusement from his fellow riders but which, because it created a wider angle between his trunk and his femur, permitted his hip to work. ''Everything's a compromise,'' he says. ''You get one pain or you get the other pain. No way around it.'' He adapted in other ways, acquiring a shoulder-rolling, stiff-legged walk to disguise what a trained eye might identify as an externally rotated antalgic gait. Landis was assisted in his subterfuge not only by his offbeat reputation but also by cycling's social structure. As a rule, professional riders live and train apart from one another, gathering only at races and occasional training camps. Phonak, like most ProTour teams, consists of 25 riders, an ever-changing handful of whom are chosen by coaches to compete in each event. At races, when Landis's teammates noticed his walk, they saw it only as an invitation to tease him about his rap-star strut. ''I'm not quite as cool as they think I am,'' Landis says archly.
Jeffery Taubenberger, the man most responsible for resurrecting the 1918 flu virus, was looking a little sick. His face was pale and his eyes red-rimmed, and he had barely touched the pasta he ordered for lunch. He pulled out a handkerchief and sneezed hard. ''There's not a respiratory virus on earth that I don't seem to want to amplify,'' he told me. ''If I were alive in 1918, I'd be dead.'' Taubenberger is the chairman of the department of molecular pathology of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology in Rockville, Md. His department was, in the early 90's, in the process of developing an expertise in retrieving tiny whispers of genetic code from putrefied flesh. As Gina Kolata described in her book ''Flu,'' Taubenberger decided in 1995 to look for the 1918 virus in samples of preserved lung in the A.F.I.P.'s tissue repository, which contains about three million pathological samples dating back to the Civil War. His techniques were far more advanced than anything Hultin had at his disposal, and his goal was more modest. Taubenberger knew that flu particles are too unstable to remain intact in a frozen corpse, and he wanted only to find a remnant of the virus's genetic code, perhaps enough to reveal what made it so virulent. But for a year and a half, he, too, failed. Finally, when Taubenberger was on the verge of giving up, he recovered from a soldier's lung a tiny fragment of the killer flu's identity, like the upturned edge of a sneering mouth.
Nutrients themselves had been around, as a concept, since the early 19th century, when the English doctor and chemist William Prout identified what came to be called the ''macronutrients'': protein, fat and carbohydrates. It was thought that that was pretty much all there was going on in food, until doctors noticed that an adequate supply of the big three did not necessarily keep people nourished. At the end of the 19th century, British doctors were puzzled by the fact that Chinese laborers in the Malay states were dying of a disease called beriberi, which didn't seem to afflict Tamils or native Malays. The mystery was solved when someone pointed out that the Chinese ate ''polished,'' or white, rice, while the others ate rice that hadn't been mechanically milled. A few years later, Casimir Funk, a Polish chemist, discovered the ''essential nutrient'' in rice husks that protected against beriberi and called it a ''vitamine,'' the first micronutrient. Vitamins brought a kind of glamour to the science of nutrition, and though certain sectors of the population began to eat by its expert lights, it really wasn't until late in the 20th century that nutrients managed to push food aside in the popular imagination of what it means to eat.
''The doctors have the most to lose,'' he said.
The article also included erroneous names supplied by the study's publicists for two participating institutions. They are Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center (not the Sisters of Charity) and Mount Sinai School of Medicine (not Mount Sinai Medical Center).
Having a colonoscopy is bad enough, but should you also have to worry that your doctor's skills are not up to snuff? That was Shavonne Reel's fear three years ago on the way to her first colonoscopy. Before the procedure, she noticed that her gastroenterologist seemed rushed and stingy with the details of the test, which can detect abnormal growths in the colon that can lead to cancer. Afterward, though he said he found nothing to worry about, he also said he could not reach a small part of her colon. The doctor put her on medication to ease her symptoms. This spring, when the rectal bleeding returned, Ms. Reel found another physician. During her second colonoscopy, her new doctor uncovered and removed a large growth. ''The second doctor found this huge polyp in the area the first one said he couldn't reach,'' said Ms. Reel, 26, an account associate at a Manhattan public relations firm. ''Something this large might have turned cancerous. I definitely think the doctor missed it the first time.''
Few dispute the need to move America's costly, fragmented health system from paper records and prescriptions into the computer age. Converting to digital records, health authorities agree, would reduce medical errors and improve efficiency, saving both lives and dollars. But what has been missing is a national road map that would encourage doctors, hospitals and insurers to invest in modern information technology. Yesterday, a group of 13 health and information technology organizations gave the Bush administration its recommendations for just such a road map for a national health information network. The group's report suggesting the principles that should guide the creation of such a network made an emphatic call for open, nonproprietary technical standards for communication across the network. The information on a patient inside a doctor's office, the report contends, must be capable of being sent across the network freely to hospitals, laboratories, specialists, insurers and researchers, if the promise of improved care and reduced costs are to be achieved.
Patients respond differently to statins, with some achieving more success in cholesterol reduction than others, Dr. Snow said. But, she said, ''our goal is not necessarily to get to a certain level of cholesterol, but to decrease heart attacks and strokes, and you can reduce that risk with a certain dose of statin.''
''They knew exactly what to do with it. They said, 'You want us to sell foods that are low fat or no fat? Sure, but you didn't say anything about calories!' And so the calories remained the same.'' Remember Snackwells, the popular cookie of the 1990's? It had no fat but plenty of refined carbohydrates: sweeteners in their various forms. The ''no fat'' label made many people think it was all right to eat an entire box. In one sitting. No fat, but the cookies still had plenty of calories. They just came from a different source. At the same time that people increased their consumption of carbohydrates, serving sizes were rising. Mindy Hermann, a registered dietician in Mount Kisco, N.Y., said: '' Everything is supersized. A single serving of a soft drink was once 6 ounces. Today it is 20 ounces. A bagel no longer weighs 2 ounces. It weighs 4 or 6. Hamburgers come in double and triple sizes, with two buns, twice as much cheese and a high-calorie sauce.''
Ray McAllister, a spokesman for CropLife America, a Washington group that represents pesticide manufacturers, said, ''We're pleased to see this larger, more comprehensive study confirming what other studies have said, and we hope it helps dispel concerns about health risks that might be posed by these compounds.'' He added that while some pesticides have caused cancer in laboratory animals, ''there has been no research that shows pesticides do cause cancer in humans.'' Advocates were quick to point out, however, that Dr. Gammon's findings did not prove to them that all pesticides were safe. ''To me it's still a no-brainer that you shouldn't use toxic chemicals on your lawn,'' said Karen Miller, the president of the Huntington Breast Cancer Action Coalition. ''They don't stop at weeds or rodents. They enter our bodies.'' She conceded that since other studies have also suggested that the pesticides in question may not be linked to breast cancer, it might be time to look elsewhere. ''All this means is we have to push for more funding to study all the other chemicals that could be causing breast cancer,'' she said.
One question that Congress would have to resolve in the beryllium compensation, and that would have to be addressed in any compensation plan developed as a result of the cancer finding, is whether to make payments to survivors. In the 57 years since the Manhattan Project began processing radioactive material to produce bombs, the government has until now minimized the hazards of radiation and chemicals, criticized epidemiological research that raised questions related to them and spent tens of millions of dollars in defending itself against lawsuits charging that the bomb plants had made workers sick. ''In the past, the role of government was to take a hike,'' Mr. Richardson said, ''and I think that was wrong.'' One expert on nuclear weapons manufacture, Robert Alvarez, a former Energy Department official,  welcomed the government's conclusion that many of its critics had been  correct. ''A review of the studies by a body impaneled by the president is official recognition,'' Mr. Alvarez said.  ''That's what makes this a big deal.''
Stapleton, which will be a mixed-income city-within-a-city of 30,000 people when completed over the next decade, is being designed and marketed by the developer Forest City Enterprises around the concept of an active lifestyle. Parks and trails lace through the property, connecting to grocery stores, banks and restaurants. The first residents began moving in last year, and exercise groups like the ''Stapleton Strollers,'' a confab of parents who gather to run or walk behind their baby carriages, have become part of the social whirl. It is a fat-researcher's dream, and at 4,700 acres by far the biggest test case of its kind in the nation. ''It's the grand experiment,'' said Dr. Ned Colange, the chief medical officer at the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment. Doctors at the University of Colorado School of Medicine say they hope to reinvent the idea of neighborhood medicine at Stapleton with a flagship clinic aimed less at treating sickness than at keeping people healthy, through things like nutrition counseling and exercise programs.
For Yukie Kikuchi, 38, the city's sole practicing midwife, that has created worries. A year ago, during a snowstorm, one of Ms. Kikuchi's patients wondered whether she was going into labor and asked the midwife whether she should go to Morioka, a city more than an hour away. ''But there was a blizzard, you could hardly see, and I was torn whether she should go in this circumstance,'' said Ms. Kikuchi, who is not related to the city health official. Eventually, she advised her patient to stay put and was relieved to learn the next morning that it had been a case of false labor. Ms. Kikuchi said she was pleased and relieved now that obstetricians could remotely examine pregnant women here. Using the system, Ms. Kikuchi visits patients at their homes or receives them at a clinic in Tono to follow up on their pregnancies. During the examination, a machine hooked to the patient's stomach records the baby's heartbeat and sends the information over a cellular network to Ms. Kikuchi's cellphone and the cellphone of Dr. Toshihiro Ogasawara at Kamaishi Hospital.
Second, the aspirin group had almost twice the rate of strokes caused by bleeding into the brain as the others, although it was possible that the clustering of these devastating events in one group rather than the other was due to chance alone. Third, a similar British study could not replicate the American study's findings. The American study, although it is the biggest yet completed of aspirin use in healthy people and is considered a landmark in the field, also left unanswered the question of whether healthy middle-aged women might benefit from regular aspirin use. Most guidelines now suggest that regular low-dose aspirin may benefit middle-aged men if they have any other risk factors for heart disease, like diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol levels, or if they smoke cigarettes. But if a man has stomach problems, or any reasons for abnormal bleeding -- if he is a heavy drinker, for instance, or takes blood thinners -- then the risks of taking aspirin might outweigh the benefits.
''Everybody is just foaming at the mouth to make money'' from obesity drugs, said Dr. Donna Ryan, an obesity researcher affiliated with Louisiana State University, which has received millions of dollars in government and drug-industry grants. Industry forecasters say that an effective weight-loss drug could have annual sales far surpassing the current best-selling drug, the cholesterol treatment Lipitor, which reached $12 billion last year, especially now that Medicare says it will pay for ''effective'' obesity treatments. Some experts caution that the complex variables of culture, environment, genetics and lifestyle that contribute to obesity may defy a mass-market solution. ''One pill fits all doesn't seem like an outcome we'll be seeing on the horizon anytime soon,'' said Dr. Julie Gerberding, the physician who directs the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But most of the biggest drug makers feel financially compelled to stay in the hunt. As it becomes more and more difficult to identify blockbusters, many companies see few other prospective best sellers in their research pipelines.
Before the Olympic Games opened in Sydney last month, the aging gold medalists Bruce Jenner, Dorothy Hamill and Bart Conner were talking more about their arthritis than the coming events. There's a good reason. All three athletes are being paid by either Merck or Pharmacia to appear on talk shows and speak to groups about the new prescription pain relievers that they are taking for their sore joints. The testimonials are part of one of the fiercest and most expensive battles now being waged in the pharmaceutical business: the war between Merck's Vioxx and Pharmacia's Celebrex. Since last year, Merck and Pharmacia, which has hired the drug giant Pfizer to help sell its new drug, have each been spending tens of millions of dollars a month on marketing their new blockbuster pain relievers to patients and doctors. The money is paying for television and print advertisements, for stipends to hundreds of doctors to speak on behalf of the drugs and for millions of free samples of the medications, known as Cox-2 inhibitors. Each side now has more than 4,000 representatives visiting doctors to promote the drugs.
''It's hard, oh it's very hard, to get changes,'' Dr. Epstein said. Even when obese children lost weight, they were often still overweight, he said. But, he said, ''if a child starts out at 80 percent overweight and ends up at 50 percent overweight, that kid is probably better off.'' Dr. Epstein said he taught parents how to set food limits, how to make good food choices and keep fattening foods out of the house and how to keep their children away from the television set. ''We taught parents how to get control of their sedentary lives, to change the environment so there is less access to TV and computer games,'' he said. ''The biggest part of our program isn't what sort of diet you should be on or what sort of exercise program you should be on. It's parenting.'' But, for now, no one can claim to have a good and reproducible method for preventing obesity in children or for curing it. Treatment programs are expensive and, especially since there is no evidence that they work, they are seldom paid for by health insurance. That leaves parents and pediatricians in a quandary over whether to treat a fat child or leave the child alone.
The fertility business is unlike any other in medicine, doctors and laboratory directors say. For one thing, it is regulated: it is the only medical specialty that requires clinics to report success rates to the federal government. But at the same time, it can be as competitive and commercial as laser eye surgery or plastic surgery. Since most patients pay with their own money, in cash, and cash-paying patients can pretty much pick and choose where they go, fertility specialists say that if they want to survive, they have to get the attention of both patients and referring doctors. Fertility centers often use some of the same strategies as large drug companies, with dinners, seminars and gifts for referring doctors, and marketing representatives who show up regularly at the referring doctors' doors. To attract patients, many provide special financing schemes, including money-back guarantees. But fertility experts say that no matter how skilled they are, no matter how honest they are about what they can offer, marketing is a fact of life.
The New Middle Ages
''Cancer cells opportunistically resort to turning on these programs, and in so doing, acquire all the traits that permit them to disseminate through the body,'' Dr. Weinberg said. ''What remains unclear is whether or not all malignant carcinoma cells must undergo an E.M.T. in order to invade and metastasize.'' Dr. Welch of Alabama added, ''The problem is experimentally proving there is a turning on of E.M.T. and then a turning off of E.M.T. when the cell lands at the distant site.'' Others are looking at cancer stem cells. Adult stem cells have the ability to renew themselves and generate new cells, but they can also become cancerous. Some experts believe that cancer stem cells are at the core of every metastasis. This would help explain why millions of cells can reach distant organs, but only a select few -- presumably those with stem cell capacities -- can initiate a tumor and colonize.
In the simplest terms, the method involves sending, photon by photon, a message that can serve as a mathematical key after it is decoded. Such a key can then be used to encode and decode E-mail messages. In other words, the new encryption system is not for the poor or the technologically faint-hearted. The technique is called quantum cryptography. It got its start in 1989 when a team of I.B.M. researchers, led by Charles Bennett, announced that it had succeeded in building a contraption that transmitted a secure message a few feet by flashing a laser on and off. Dr. Bennett said the system was based on exploiting certain aspects of quantum physics that govern the realm of the very small. A quantum system, he said, ''has properties that can't be measured without disturbing other properties.'' What happens is that the act of observing affects the photons. So if a spy or eavesdropper interrupted the message, or even decoded it, that action would destroy the message itself.
Lillie Shockney  Breast cancer survivor, registered nurse, Johns Hopkins Breast Center, Baltimore I'm a huge fan of mammography. My cancer was found accidentally on a mammogram. It was 10 years ago. I was 38, and I had a baseline mammogram. I had found a lump on my right breast, which ended up being a cyst. But they found an invasive tumor in my left breast. It was just four millimeters, very tiny, and would only have been found on a mammogram. If I had waited until I was 40 to have my baseline, I probably would not be talking with you right now. I had no family history, no known risk factors, like smoking or early menstruation or having a first child after age 30. Seventy percent of women with breast cancer have no known risk factors. Mammography is still at this moment in time our best weapon for early detection. I cannot imagine a woman not pursuing it.
How feasible is it to do this testing widely? BUTLER: It's expensive, and I don't think it's a good idea for the public at large because we don't have a treatment. But for research, it's fantastic because the earlier that we can make the identification, the more we can introduce potential interventions, like drugs being developed that would prevent or dissolve the accumulation of amyloid. GUARENTE: I would just point out that Alzheimer's would be in the group of diseases that has aging as an underlying risk factor, so being able to manipulate the aging process, I think, would also have implications for Alzheimer's. BUTLER: For me, one of the most disturbing experiences is putting a fully incapacitated Alzheimer's patient in front of a mirror and asking him who he is, and he doesn't know. It's just shocking to see that happen to human beings -- they don't even recognize themselves. Elie Wiesel, the Nobel Prize winner who wrote ''Night,'' said we are our memories. Which I think is a beautiful statement of the significance of memory, because when you're older, you also tend to review your life and to try to come to terms with it, and if you have Alzheimer's, you're denied that opportunity.
Some doctors have been prescribing antidepressants instead of hormones, while many women are trying herbal products like black cohosh or are increasing their consumption of soy. So far, scientific proof that alternative treatments work has been limited and mixed, with questions over proper dosages, inconsistent quality and long-term safety. Still other women are trying new, low-dose versions of Prempro and Premarin or so-called bioidentical hormones -- compounds made with at least some natural products in small, boutique labs. Dr. Manson, the Women's Health Initiative researcher, and other experts said drugmakers were aggressively marketing the new forms of hormones, including low dose pills, patches and creams. Dr. Randall S. Stafford, an assistant professor of medicine at the Stanford Intervention Research Center, whose research includes tracking promotional patterns for hormone therapy, said he saw an increase in consumer ads, ads in medical journals, free samples to doctors and visits to doctors' offices by drug company representatives -- especially for low-dose Prempro and Premarin, introduced this year.
''I tell patients if the reconstruction is going to be radiated, it will definitely change the appearance of their cosmetic outcome,'' Dr. Topham said. ''The degree to which it changes is unpredictable. It may be very mild or very severe.'' Because the change can be mild, some plastic surgeons believe that delaying reconstruction is not necessary. A few studies show low rates of complications with immediate reconstruction, but they represent a minority. Research suggests that women fare better emotionally if reconstruction is performed at the time of the mastectomy, so the trend toward delayed reconstruction is viewed with some alarm. ''People took a long time to get away from delayed reconstruction, and now we're going back to it, which seems to be a big step backward,'' said Dr. Abram Recht, deputy chief of radiation oncology at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. If reconstruction is delayed, using an implant is out of the question for most women, Dr. Spear said.
What is not disputed is the importance of exercise and nutrition in heading off many major diseases, whether or not a person is overweight. ''If you get a person exercising more and improving their diet, their health problems may clear up, even if they don't lose weight,'' said Glenn A. Gaesser, an exercise physiology professor at the University of Virginia.
One mother in Short Hills, N.J., questioned her pediatrician when her 5-year-old daughter developed oily hair and body odor. But the mother said that the doctor kept saying there was nothing to worry about. Two years later, Dr. Maria I. New, chairman of the pediatrics department at Cornell University's Weill Medical College, found that the child had a genetic disorder, nonclassical congenital adrenal hyperplasia, which, left untreated, stops bone growth and can cause acne, baldness and infertility. ''She lost approximately four inches of adult height,'' the mother said. In 1999, the debate was inflamed by an article in Pediatrics, by Dr. Kaplowitz and Dr. Sharon E. Oberfield, a pediatric endocrinologist at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and approved by a committee of the pediatric endocrine society. Based on Dr. Herman-Giddens's data, they said, the guidelines for assessing puberty should be changed. Now, they said, with few exceptions, the only girls who need to be evaluated for early puberty are black girls under age 6 and white girls under age 7 who are developing breasts or pubic hair.
Your dental health may be a sign not only of how diligently you brush and floss but also of your risk of stroke and heart disease. A number of studies have indicated a relationship between periodontal disease and a heightened risk of developing problems with the heart or circulatory system. But pinning down those suspicions has proved difficult. Now a new study has provided what several experts called the most solid evidence yet. The study found that older adults who had lost 10 to 19 teeth were more likely than those who had lost fewer teeth to have a major risk factor for stroke -- plaque clogging the main arteries to the brain. A leading theory for the connection between the teeth and the arteries is that periodontal disease, a bacterial infection of the gums, may start a cascade of chemical events that cause inflammation throughout the body. Chronic inflammation in the arteries is thought to contribute to atherosclerosis, a narrowing of blood vessels that can lead to stroke or heart attack.
And the outlook for them is improving -- people are getting the diseases later in life, and death rates are falling. Yet, in many instances, patients are undertreated or treated inappropriately. In some cases, science has not offered answers, but in others, the medical system has been unable to turn proven remedies into everyday care. Today, The New York Times examines the No. 1 killer, heart disease. A million Americans have heart attacks each year and half a million die. A great deal is known about how to prevent heart attacks, how to save lives and prevent disability. But opportunities are squandered out of complacency, denial and because of the way heart care is paid for. Among the current findings: Only a small fraction of the nation's acute care hospitals offer a treatment, angioplasty, that can open blocked arteries. Yet many other hospitals are reluctant to divert patients there because heart attack patients are so lucrative.
It's time to move beyond the debates about the utility of breast self-examination and mammography and increase the resources and energy devoted to finding something that will truly give us early detection. Susan M. Love is author of ''Dr. Susan Love's Breast Book'' and an adjunct professor of surgery at U.C.L.A. Medical School.
IT means that I must eat premade, prepacked, premeasured hospital food (and not a morsel of anything else) for the three days before each overnight stay. Worst of all, it means that I must greet two mornings each year without caffeine. Technically, I knew all this when I volunteered. The hospital sent me all sorts of information, which I have no recollection of reading, although I signed the consent forms. At any rate, the reality of those tests is different from the clinical descriptions. I'm still not sure how I got involved. Years ago, while researching a magazine article, I participated for a day in a metabolic study conducted at the hospital, which is known for its metabolic research. Last year, my name apparently surfaced. Someone must have done the math and realized that I was just about the age (48) to be a candidate for a ''menopause transition'' project. I got a call and, without thinking much about it, said, ''Why not?''
Yet doctors like Dr. Eric Braverman, director of PATH Medical, a center for integrative medicine in New York, defend the use of HGH at low, carefully supervised levels. One of his patients, an 82-year-old retired executive from Long Island, who requested anonymity for privacy reasons, said that daily HGH injections over the last 13 months had repaired some of the damage he incurred from congestive heart failure and overmedication for high-blood pressure. ''I can't walk fast, but I can walk 40 blocks now with no trouble,'' he said. ''I've had virtually no side-effects.'' Dr. Braverman predicts that HGH will become more widely prescribed. ''I am convinced that it is a core dimension in dealing with the effects of aging,'' he said. ''I have hundreds of patients with experience, and it's rare that they have side-effects. The real danger is that these things are being sold over the Internet.'' On that issue, both sides agree.
One of the central tenets of modern medicine is that the earlier your doctor can catch a disease, the better. This has proved a brilliant strategy for several conditions. Detecting high blood pressure, for example, and treating it can cut a patient's risk of stroke by a third and the chances of heart disease by 20 percent. Identifying patients with the first signs of diabetes and controlling their blood sugar can help significantly reduce the chances of cardiovascular disease, kidney and neurological damage and blindness. By spotting an abdominal aneurysm, doctors can monitor the progress of the defect and repair it before it ruptures. The notion that disease could be prevented at all was shaped by the sanitary movement of the 19th century, when doctors and antipoverty activists set about improving the living conditions of the poor and reduced the appalling rates of infectious disease. Today, the simplest and most effective prevention medicine stops disease before it starts through vaccinations, for instance, or encouraging people to exercise more, smoke less, eat fruits and vegetables and drink in moderation -- all of which can cut the risk of cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and stroke.
As legal cases have become increasingly technical, said Peter H. Schuck, a Yale law professor, the different legal and scientific approaches have clashed more openly than ever before. ''Science is always gaining new information,'' Professor Schuck said. ''The law is the opposite. It has to make a decision so people can get on with their lives.'' The legal system long ago recognized that legal and scientific determinations might contradict each other, he said. For decades, for example, individual smokers have had difficulty winning damage suits against tobacco companies despite the overwhelming scientific consensus that tobacco is linked to disease. Some scholars say the inconsistencies are a small price to pay for a legal system that does not have the luxury of waiting for scientific certainty. ''People just have to get used to the idea that the legal system is imperfect,'' said Saul Levmore, a professor at the University of Chicago Law School.
In 2001, Mr. Principi extended benefits to veterans of the Persian Gulf war who suffer from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, after studies found them to be nearly twice as likely to contract the disease as other troops. ''We have come to learn that environmental hazards of the battlefield can prove to be as disabling or deadly as the more traditional form of combat,'' he said in an interview. Until now, the relationship between Agent Orange and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or CLL, has been murky. Although the disease is the most common form of leukemia, it is still considered a rare form of cancer. About 7,000 cases were diagnosed last year in the United States, presenting researchers with a small sample from which to draw conclusions. The panel at the Institute of Medicine, which Congress finances as part of the National Academy of Sciences, took a different tack when researchers noted that lymphocytic leukemia, although classified as leukemia, shared many traits with Hodgkin's disease and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, both of which had been linked to herbicide exposure.
The study was led by Dr. Barry Reisberg of the New York University School of Medicine. He said he had urged Merz Pharmaceuticals, a German company that owns the rights to the drug, to study the effects of memantine in patients with more advanced cases of the disease. The company, Dr. Reisberg said, hesitated at first, saying it had limited money. ''They kept saying, 'We're Merz, not Merck,' '' he recalled, but eventually Merz supported a study involving 252 patients who took memantine or a placebo for 28 weeks. The disease progressed at a slightly slower rate in those taking the drug, researchers concluded. Still, Alzheimer experts in the United States remain cautious. ''It's going to be useful because it's a different drug, it has a different mechanism of action'' than the three drugs on the market for mild to moderate disease, Dr. Petersen said. ''I don't think it's a home run. I think its effects are pretty modest.''
In Southern California, two entrepreneurs (and Atkins dieters) last month opened the first two in a chain of low-carb supermarkets called Pure Foods, and individual low-carb markets are opening nationwide. In January, a new magazine called LowCarb Living hit newsstands. The boom in low-fat products in the 1980's and 90's reflected the F.D.A.'s recommendations as well as years of studies showing that low-fat diets could reduce the risks of heart diseases and various cancers. But the surge in low-carb products primarily reflects the runaway success of books about the low-carb diets, which are being used by an estimated 10 million to 25 million people. Doctors have warned that high levels of saturated fats in some low-carbohydrate, high-protein diets can lead to heart disease and kidney problems. And critics worry that just as some people took low-fat as a license to eat the whole carton of light ice cream, they will take low-carb as permission to eat the entire crustless cheesecake, fattening up on calories either way.
The Food and Drug Administration warned the company in 1995 not to manipulate data to show positive results. Last year, university scientists charged the company with trying to squelch publication of their scientific paper describing a clinical trial that failed. The company said it wanted the paper to include a chart that suggested Remune had some effectiveness, but the lead authors of the paper said the chart was based on spurious analysis. That trial, on more than 2,500 patients, failed to show that Remune improved survival or lengthened the time before H.I.V. infection progressed to AIDS. But the trial took place just as new AIDS drugs were coming into use that vastly improved survival of patients. That, the company argued, made it nearly impossible for Remune to show a benefit over the placebo. So newer trials looked to see whether Remune can suppress levels of the virus in the blood. But the company announced on June 1 that a trial in Spain found Remune no better than the placebo. The company argues that the vaccine worked in a subset of patients with stronger immune systems, and it will present data on this in Argentina. Some doctors testing Remune say further trials are warranted but, with Pfizer's pullback, might not happen.
The Women's Health Initiative was not the first large trial to report negative results about hormones and heart disease. The Heart and Estrogen-Progestin Replacement Study or HERS, had looked at whether combination hormone therapy would prevent a second heart attack and found that the risk actually increased in the first year of use. Smaller clinical trials are under way to explore the ''window of opportunity'' theory, but they lack the health initiative's power of numbers, and they will track markers for heart disease, not heart attacks. ''What we're trying to do is reconcile why there is such a disconnect, or paradox, between the observational trials and the randomized controlled trials,''said Dr. Isaac Schiff, chief of obstetrics and gynecology at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston and chairman of a report on hormone therapy for the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Simplified, the window of opportunity argument goes something like this: Most women do not develop heart disease until after menopause, because estrogen protects their blood vessels, keeping them smooth and free of plaque. But if women go without estrogen for a long period after menopause, they will develop atherosclerosis. At that point, estrogen may be harmful, because it increases the tendency to clot, raising the risk of a heart attack.
Facing a staggering financial crisis that is forcing it to make deep cuts in its services, Mount Sinai Medical Center announced yesterday that the president of its hospital, Barry R. Freedman, was being replaced. Mr. Freedman, who has been associated with the hospital for 25 years, many of those in top leadership positions, will be succeeded by Dr. Larry Hollier, now a senior vice president and the hospital's chief of surgery. It was a decision that Mount Sinai's trustees described as an attempt to begin remaking the hospital into more of a ''physician-led organization.'' During Mr. Freedman's tenure, the hospital began an ambitious building program, increased admissions and managed for a while to cut its average length of stay, increasing revenues. But as the landscape of health care financing began to shift during the 1990's, and after the medical center entered into what became a troubled merger with New York University Medical Center in 1998, the hospital's fortunes began to decline.
There's no way, of course, to put a dollar figure on some effects of global warming, like the loss of species or the pain people feel on being dislocated. Most Americans would probably prefer not to see any change in the climate, and Dr. Mendelsohn is sympathetic to their view. ''If it were cheap to do, I'd keep the climate constant,'' he said. ''But it's not cheap. For every dollar we spend on mitigation, at most we would get 10 cents back, and it could only be 1 cent. To me, it looks like a very bad investment. I'd rather spend the money on programs today to cut  pollution, improve public health and establish zones for protecting biodiversity. We'd get larger benefits, and we wouldn't have to wait 100 years for them.'' In other work, Dr. Mendelsohn has found that the worldwide economic costs and benefits of climate change would roughly balance out. Again, most of the benefits would be in the North, while farmers in the tropics would suffer.
Breast augmentation surgery can cost from $4,500 to $10,000, including silicone implants -- which are more expensive -- or saline implants, surgeons' fees and operating-room costs. Health insurance does not typically cover cosmetic procedures. But even as more women choose breast augmentation, surgeons have been engaged in a heated debate over how best to monitor and treat silicone patients. Doctors must go over a checklist about risks and follow-up care with every patient seeking silicone implants, according to manufacturers' guidelines. And in advising them to get an M.R.I. every two years starting the third year after the surgery, doctors said they also inform patients of an additional cost of $1,000 to $2,200, which is unlikely to be covered by insurance. The tests deter some patients. ''If you added up all the M.R.I.'s you would need over the years, I figured the cost of the tests would soon outstrip what you paid for the actual augmentation with silicone,'' said Michelle C. Meyer, a bank teller in Waseca, Minn., who got saline implants last week.
J. Carol Goodman, a 71-year-old writer from Morristown, N.J., was hiking in the Swiss Alps four years ago when she became dizzy, lost her sense of balance and began, as she put it, walking like a drunk. She managed to get back to her friends' home in St. Moritz and went to bed. ''I woke the next morning with the room spinning,'' she recalled. After she began vomiting, she was taken by ambulance to a nearby hospital. ''By the time I got there, the doctors said my eyes were jiggling out of my head,'' she said. ''I was on the fastest roller coaster in the world and could not stop it.'' The Swiss doctors stabilized nerve spasms in and around her eyes and she flew home to New Jersey the next day. Mrs. Goodman says her collapse was the culmination of health problems she had steadily developed since 1992, when she was bitten by a tick in her backyard and Lyme disease was diagnosed.
But wait a minute. Don't those compelling five-year survival statistics of 80 percent vs. 15 percent prove that CT screening works? The short answer is no. You have to consider exactly how a five-year survival rate is figured. It is a fraction. Imagine 1,000 people diagnosed with lung cancer five years ago. If 150 are alive today, the five year survival is 150/1000, or 15 percent. Yet even if CT screening raised the five-year survival rate to 80 percent, it is entirely possible that no one gets an extra day of life. The best way to understand this paradox is to work through a thought experiment. First, consider a group of people with lung cancer who will all die at age 70. If they first receive the diagnosis when they are 67, their five-year survival rate would be zero percent. But if these same people had received their diagnoses earlier -- at, say, age 63 -- the five-year survival rate would be 100 percent. Yet death would still come at 70 for all of them. Earlier diagnosis always increases the five-year survival statistic, but it doesn't necessarily mean that death is postponed.
The slaughter of more than 100 million chickens this spring seemed to bring the disease under control. But it has reappeared this summer, killing the three people who are confirmed to have caught it in recent days in Vietnam. Hong Kong and Chinese officials announced separately on Friday that China had temporarily suspended shipments of chilled ducks and geese to Hong Kong from neighboring Guangdong Province earlier this month. The Hong Kong government said this was to check whether ducks and geese there had avian influenza; China has not acknowledged any such cases. Most kinds of influenza viruses live only in birds, not people. But pigs can be infected with both bird strains and human strains of influenza. When these viruses mix and reassort genes inside a pig, the result can be a new virus for which people have little immunity. Many scientists believe that the great flu pandemics of the 20th century -- the Spanish influenza of 1918-19, the Asian flu of 1957-58 and the Hong Kong flu of 1968-69 -- began when new flu strains moved from birds to people. Estimates of worldwide deaths from the Spanish influenza range from 20 million to 100 million, while the next two pandemics together killed 4 million to 5 million people.
But even if Kirsch's case proves too extreme, that still leaves a placebo response rate of between 30 to 40 percent, meaning that 30 to 40 percent of the depressed subjects in clinical trials feel happier while taking a contentless pill. And there is good reason to think that that may be an underestimate. In the first place, many randomized controlled trials are preceded by a so-called washout phase in which all participants take an inert pill and anyone who reacts favorably to it is eliminated; the 30 to 40 percent comes out of a group, then, that has already been purged of probable placebo-reactors. In the second place, several studies show that the rate may be more like 50 percent for depressions that have lasted less than three months, especially if they were also triggered by a specific event. Given that active drugs often have unwelcome side effects (though, oddly, placebo takers sometimes report these, too) and that many patients might be relieved to know they don't actually need a chemical antidote to their woes, why shouldn't doctors give Brown's suggestion a try?
Of course, the general practitioner had neither: he was just a doc with four years of medical school plus a yearlong internship under his belt when he started practicing. He had gotten most of his training on the job. How could he compete with these new specialists? Graduating doctors flocked to hospital-based training programs to enter the rarefied air of specialty medicine. In 1940, three-quarters of doctors were generalists. Three decades later, only 20 percent were. Around that time, though, it became clear that in trading up from the general practitioner to the specialist, some things had been lost. In 1961, The New England Journal of Medicine published a paper that used the new science of epidemiology to show that specialists, with all their fancy training, were actually rather poorly prepared for the patients they saw once they went into practice. These doctors learned medicine by treating the sickest patients, yet many ended up caring for a relatively healthy population. Most of their patients were far too well to be in the hospital and wanted their doctors to help them stay that way. Hospital-based training left these doctors singularly unprepared for that task. As a result, specialty doctors, like the old G.P.'s, got the training they really needed on the job.
The catch is that the new pump will cost $2,000, about 10 times more than conventional pumps. ''Yes, it would be more expensive,'' Mr. Vincent said. ''But if we're right it would save a lot of money.'' The best way to improve health care and contain costs is to take a new approach, said Dr. Dean Ornish, a clinical professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, and a leading proponent of preventive medicine. Medicine is currently practiced, he said, as part of a ''disease care system'' geared to reactingto the consequences of bad health instead of treating the underlying causes. More than 90 percent of heart disease, Dr. Ornish insists, is preventable. Over the years, Dr. Ornish has led several projects showing that fundamental changes in diet, exercise and stress management can stop and even reverse heart disease. Preventive programs cost money upfront, but can cut overall treatment costs to insurers by 30 percent or more, yet few insurers pay for preventive care.
AS a New York Knick, Fred Crawford suited up with Bill Bradley and Willis Reed. Later he was a member of the Los Angeles Lakers when Elgin Baylor and Jerry West were the stars of that team. He ended his career with the Milwaukee Bucks, whose center was Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. That was three decades ago. Late last month, as he entered a medical office on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Mr. Crawford moved in what must have seemed like slow motion to him. Decades of constant pounding had taken their toll on his left hip. Pain and weakness prevented him from walking more than three blocks at a time. ''Basketball is a tough business, but you're not thinking about that at the time,'' Mr. Crawford said. His diagnosis: moderately severe osteoarthritis. Mr. Crawford is not alone. About  21 million Americans are afflicted with osteoarthritis. (According to a federal study, the figure will soar to more than 30 million by 2020, as the baby boomers grow older.) Women stand a greater chance than men of developing the disease, especially women over 65. But some arthritis experts are noticing a change in their patients: more men developing severe cases, and earlier, in their 50's rather than in their 60's and 70's, which may be attributed to more participation in strenuous sports.
It is painless. I know that now. A cocktail of sedatives takes the edge off the discomfort, which is more in our heads than in our rumps anyway. There are no pain receptors in the colon, and you can watch the event progress on a television monitor at no extra charge. The pictures seemed almost impressionist, very color intensive to me. Maybe it was the drugs. Only slight abdominal pressure registered, but the truth is, our phobias are all about the instant of entry, the long anticipated, awful anal invasion that makes grown men cringe. Face it. Guys are wimps. Women are used to routine medical invasion. Alas, it is their lot in life. By the time a woman hits 50 and heads for the doctor, earlier if there is a family history, she has been probed and prodded in every orifice. Women who have borne children should laugh at such male distress. When Colonoscopy Claus comes down the chimney, women may not jingle bells, but they seem to sigh and embrace him.
''There are more Americans for sure as time goes on,'' said Rabbi Yonatan Adler, the director of Puah's public relations. One reason is religious, the other is cost. Older women are more likely to be accepted, too. Rabbi Gideon Weitzman, who heads the institute's English-speaking section, said, ''People are exploring the possibilities.'' Like Ms. Abbey. She recalled methodically pricing Thailand at $3,000 but deciding that the medicine was too primitive, ruling out London at $7,000 a cycle, and dismissing Germany for low success rates. But everything was better than the upwards of $18,000 for a doctor and treatment that she was quoted when they lived in Modesto, Calif. The total cost for her two in vitro efforts in Naples was less than $8,500, she said. ''People will do anything for a baby,'' Ms. Abbey said. ''There're women out there who've hocked the house. So what's the big deal about taking your passport and leaving the country?''
Even so, it is sobering to find that the virus has been getting ever more lethal, and that it is now so deeply entrenched in wild and domestic bird populations that it may be impossible to eradicate. Chinese researchers reported last month that virus samples taken from domestic ducks in China were causing increasingly severe disease when administered to mice, which are often used as a surrogate to determine what might happen in humans. Meanwhile, the World Health Organization reported last month that avian influenza appeared to have re-emerged in poultry in several Asian countries, including China, Thailand, Vietnam and Indonesia. The widespread culling efforts early this year, in which more than 100 million birds were destroyed in an effort to halt the spread of the disease, obviously fell short of the goal. Two United Nations bodies -- the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization -- have stepped up their efforts to combat the epidemic in birds before the virus can leap to humans.
Cardiologists, radiologists and others could buy their own CT scanners, though, so all the payments could go to them. The customary amount that insurers will eventually pay for CT scans is not yet known, but ''obviously, there's a potential for being financially remunerated at a high level,'' Dr. Topol said. Radiologists also say they could do the CT scans, assuming much of the business of cardiologists, who had angiography all to themselves. ''Cardiologists made a lot of money with stress tests and coronary catheterization,'' said Dr. David Dowe, a radiologist who is medical director and chief operating officer of Atlantic Medical Imaging in Galloway, N.J. ''Now radiologists are capable of doing this test without a cardiologist's involvement.'' Some who have had CT heart scans are delighted. At Beaumont Hospital, which has a new Siemens scanner, Dr. O'Neill had a scan himself. He has also had an angiogram. With a strong history of heart disease in his family, he wanted to check his arteries, even though he had no symptoms.
But the cell populations to be implanted must be pure, said Dr. Goldman of Rochester, who is also a professor of neurology. It is essential, he said, that the cells contain no residual embryonic stem cells, because when implanted in the body they tend to form tumors called teratomas that consist of a mix of tissue types including hair, skin and teeth. Moreover, Dr. Goldman said, for certain applications, like treating neurologic diseases, implanting the wrong type of nerve cell could cause side effects like seizures. But the work is advancing. ''With adequate funding, there's no question we could be in clinical trials in two or three years,'' said Robert P. Lanza, medical director of Advanced Cell Technology Inc., a Worcester, Mass., company that has been pursuing therapeutic cloning but now has only a handful of scientists. ''The question is are we going to be around to be doing this work.''
Federal health officials yesterday sharply reduced the desired levels of harmful cholesterol for Americans who are at moderate to high risk for heart disease. The new recommendations call for treatment with cholesterol-lowering drugs for millions of Americans who had thought their cholesterol levels were fine. Already more than 10 million people take the drugs. But now, more should start, the recommendations say. For people at the highest risk, they suggest that the target level of L.D.L., the type of cholesterol that increases the likelihood of heart disease, should be less than 100. That is 30 points lower than previously recommended. For people at moderately high risk, lowering L.D.L. to below 100 with medication should be seriously considered, the report said. The advice for people at low risk remains unchanged. The recommendations were published today in the journal Circulation and endorsed by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute; the American Heart Association; and the American College of Cardiology. The authors said the change was prompted by data from five recent clinical trials indicating that the current cholesterol goals were not aggressive enough and that more intense drug treatment led to better results.
Ms. Gallagher still regularly returns to L-Marc to check her weight on the clinic's scale. She says she has lost an additional five pounds since completing the trial. ''I guess I've changed my way of eating, too,'' said Ms. Gallagher, who now takes fruit with her to work, where she no longer fears catching a glimpse of herself. Another L-Marc clinical trial participant, John Froman, 50, said he used to spend holidays eating his way from one family dinner to another, putting on weight at each stop. ''You do two Christmases, three Thanksgivings, two New Years; everybody is cooking real big,'' said Mr. Froman, who maintains locks on the Ohio River for the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Mr. Froman lost 60 pounds and he credits the little white pill he took. But he says the advice he was given has changed his outlook on life, and he will no longer stuff himself.
Researchers have known for years the conditions that predispose a person to stroke -- smoking, diabetes, high cholesterol and an irregular heartbeat known as atrial fibrillation. But the major one is high blood pressure. ''Of all the modifiable risk factors, high blood pressure leads the list,'' Dr. Sacco said. ''With heart disease, you think more of cholesterol; with stroke you think of high blood pressure.'' The reason, Dr. Sacco said, is that with high blood pressure, the tiny blood vessels in the brain clamp down so much and so hard to protect the brain that they can become rigid. Then they get blocked. The result is a stroke. Often, people decide they do not need their blood pressure medication or simply forget to take it because they feel well. But, Dr. Sacco said, patients are not solely to blame. Doctors may not have time to work with patients, monitoring blood pressure, telling them about changes in their diet and exercise that might help, or trying different drugs and combining them if necessary.
GERI BARISH, like so many other breast cancer survivors on Long Island, had waited for years for the results of a federal study on what connection, if any, pesticides and air pollution might have on breast cancer on Long Island. So it was no surprise that she was disappointed when the findings of the National Cancer Institute study were released last week and showed that four chemicals long suspected as potential causes of breast cancer are, in fact, probably not responsible for the Island's cancer rate, which is higher than the state and national rates. The rate in Nassau County is 115.6 cases per 100,000 women and in Suffolk County, the rate is 118.2. The state's rate is 104.1 cases per 100,000 women, and nationally, it is 109.5. For New York City, the rate is 97.2. ''Disappointed but not discouraged,'' Ms. Barish said. ''We thought this would give us all the answers, but the thing about science is it just raises more questions.''
The Food and Drug Administration, whose approval is required for gene therapy trials, agreed. ''There are a number of scientific questions and safety issues to be addressed before any of that could go forward,'' Dr. Philip Noguchi, the director of the agency's division of cellular and gene therapies, said in an interview. ''We don't quite know what we should be concerned about because the biological understanding has not been developed yet.'' The National Institutes of Health held a meeting of experts last March to explore the use of H.I.V. vectors for gene therapy, which involves inserting genes for a particular function into a patient's cells. But Dr. Noguchi said a wider, more open public hearing would be held before his agency would consider approving the first such trial. ''The public hasn't really weighed in with its own opinion,'' he said. It is the very infectiousness of H.I.V. that makes it attractive for gene therapy, which so far has not lived up to its expectations. People with hemophilia, for instance, have an inherited genetic defect that prevents them from making a crucial protein needed for blood clotting. But if enough of the patient's cells could be provided with the proper gene, the patient could manufacture his own blood clotting factor.
In theory, he says, they could shield the respiratory system from oxidative damage from pollution and cigarettes, which send ''literally trillions of free radicals down into the lungs.'' Now, he says, he urges patients to get their antioxidants in diets rich in fruits and vegetables. BOOKS ON HEALTH
The success, at last, of gene therapy shows the wisdom of such an approach, experts said. ''They did all the science beforehand and then translated it to the patient, which is what I think the field should be doing,'' Dr. Orkin said. Dr. Anderson said that while other forms of SCID should be amenable to gene therapy now, nonetheless, ''because you correct SCID doesn't mean you can correct any other disease.'' But he added, ''If you can't correct SCID, you can't correct anything else.''
The Norvasc study also had somewhat paradoxical results. The study, which followed almost 20,000 patients with high blood pressure from 1998 until 2004, showed that patients taking Norvasc had a 15 percent lower death rate from all causes than those taking beta blockers, a different type of blood pressure drug. Deaths from heart attacks and other cardiovascular events alone were 25 percent lower in patients taking Norvasc. But Norvasc failed to show a statistically significant reduction in deaths from fatal coronary heart disease, the initial goal of the trial.
Dr. Freedman said there was a reason for the imbalance: Sam Shapiro, the study director, had better data on the women in the screened group than in the control group, since he was following the screened women closely, with mammograms and office visits. So he was more likely to notice if they had already had breast cancer. But does this flaw cast serious doubts on the conclusions? Here, the two experts disagree. Dr. Berry says the trial's conclusion rests on a difference of 43 deaths from breast cancer after 18 years. And, he says, there were 500 more women excluded from the screened group than from the control group. If just 10 percent of those 500 women died of breast cancer, and if they had remained in the study group where they were originally assigned, that would have been an additional 50 breast cancer deaths. That result, Dr. Berry said, would more than eliminate the positive effect that the study found from screening.
A microneedle had squeezed out all the genetic material from a freshly harvested human egg. Now, in the shadows of a darkened laboratory, a technician in a blue jumpsuit prodded and probed the egg's outer membrane on Monday morning, seeking to introduce a skin cell from a patient with an immune deficiency. Finally, on the third probe, the rubbery wall gave way. Magnified 250 times on a black-and-white screen, the egg could be seen making room for the new skin cell, with its new genetic code. ''I never destroy any life during my process,'' said Dr. Woo Suk Hwang, the laboratory director, his eyes flashing above his surgical mask as he gave a reporter a rare look at the controversial human-cell transfer process developed at this small lab on the sixth floor of Building No. 85 at Seoul National University. To his supporters, Dr. Hwang's report on May 20 that he had created new colonies of stem cells that matched the DNA of their donors was a major leap toward the dream of growing replacement tissues for conditions like spinal cord injuries, juvenile diabetes and congenital immune deficiencies.
OBESITY is considered a major public health problem today, but a number of scientists are coming to see it as a comparative blessing, given the alternative. These public heath experts believe, in effect, that America may have traded smoking -- a truly lethal habit -- for the lesser deadliness of eating too much. The story of this trade-off can be seen in the data. From 1973 until 1983, Americans were actually growing thinner. During that period, the average weight of middle-aged men fell about two pounds, while that of middle-aged women fell nearly three pounds. Then the trend reversed: from 1980 to 2000, the average weight of Americans rose by nearly 20 pounds. Everyone got heavier, said Dr. David Williamson, a statistician at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. ''Competitive cyclists weigh more than they did 20, 30 years ago; HIV patients weigh more.'' Yet the nation also is healthier. Life expectancy has gone up by more than six years over the past three decades, and heart disease, long the major killer, is on the wane.
An egg has a full number of chromosomes right up until fertilization, when it ejects half of them and receives a half set from the sperm. So if this ejection is suppressed, an egg will have the full number of chromosomes. The embryos created this way would not be clones of the woman, Dr. Hall said, because the chromosomes in an egg are somewhat different from the woman's set. Still, he said, the tissues derived from stem cells from such embryos would be close enough to a woman's own tissues that they would not be rejected if transplanted back into the woman. Another possible way to develop such compatible tissues is to use stem cells made by cloning the patient's own cells. The idea, known as therapeutic cloning, is to take genetic material from a patient's cell and fuse it with an egg that is missing its own nucleus, creating an embryo that is a genetic copy of the patient. But because an embryo made through that method would in theory be able to develop into a person, Roman Catholic authorities and other abortion opponents have objected.
Dr. FitzGerald's line of questioning began in 1998, with a paper published the week Celebrex was put on the market. In it, he showed that if he blocked COX-2 in mice, blood vessels constricted and narrowed, and platelets, which are involved in blood clotting, become active. ''We saw this and said, 'This is not good,''' Dr. FitzGerald said. He continued to probe the biochemistry, but not everyone was convinced, and even Dr. FitzGerald decided that the drugs' benefits -- they relieved pain and were less likely to cause stomach bleeding -- outweighed for some patients what he saw as their heart attack risks. But he was not surprised when the colon cancer prevention studies showed that both Vioxx and Celebrex were associated with an increased incidence of heart disease. Some scientists point out, however, that no one has ever studied older drugs that inhibit both COX-1 and COX-2 to see whether they also increase heart attack risk. The Aleve data are preliminary, not conclusive, but they are among the first to address the question for an older drug. Other such drugs include Mobic, indomethacin, and diclofenac.
Kolata knows this. She touches on reasons that poor people are more likely than rich people to be overweight, all of them environmental. But she treats childhood obesity as virtually inevitable. In addition to the twin and adoption studies, she cites research showing that teaching kids to eat right in school, and serving them leaner lunches, has no effect on their weights. The researchers concluded that the intervention was too limited -- the children's diets needed to change at home as well as at school. But Kolata scoffs at the ''popular solution,'' which is ''not to question the premise but rather to increase the intensity of the intervention.'' Given the rise in obesity, however, is it really credible to put all the blame on our genes -- and ignore the gazillion-dollar food industry? And while it's useful to point out that obese people don't have higher rates of anxiety, depression or mood disorders, that doesn't mean these conditions are never a factor in causing obesity in those who are genetically susceptible to it. As some of the testimony of Kolata's own dieters attests, we eat not just because our appetites drive us to but because our psyches do, in search of both pleasure and relief from pain or stress.
Now, Ms. Terry said, the gene has been found. She worked with the Genetic Alliance, an advocacy group in Washington for people with genetic diseases, in formulating the contract. ''More and more of our organizations are interested in this, and they become savvy very fast,'' said Mary Davidson, the alliance's executive director. The groups are familiar with the Canavan disease story and they have taken careful note, she said. But there can be a danger in demanding too much too soon. ''People may find that if they overreach in these contracts, the thing that they felt so valuable is something no one is interested in pursuing,'' said Robert P. Merges, a law professor specializing in patent law at the University of California at Berkeley. That happened to a Boston family whose members had long life spans, which made them of great interest to Dr. Thomas Perls, a gerontologist at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. The family told Dr. Perls that he could use their tissue to search for a longevity gene, but only if the medical center paid a huge sum of money. Dr. Perls refused.
''The issue we tried to address is how do we mobilize America's incredibly fragmented health system to really get this done,'' said David Lansky, a director of the health program at the Markle Foundation, which coordinated the work of the organizations involved, including the American Health Information Management Association, the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society and the Liberty Alliance Project. The study was delivered to the Bush administration's national health information technology coordinator, Dr. David J. Brailer, who had asked for recommendations on how to build a national health information network. The 54-page document, which the group calls a ''common framework,'' borrows heavily from the technical and policy approach of the Internet. The federal government, the report says, should guide the development of a health network with a light hand by providing some initial financing and endorsing basic technical standards, but should set up a separate ''standards and policy entity'' to handle the task.
The South African scientist who admitted falsifying data in a closely watched breast cancer study was dismissed today, six weeks after American researchers reviewing his work uncovered the fraud and alerted officials at his employer here, the University of the Witwatersrand. The scientist, Werner Bezwoda, claimed in a study showcased last year at the annual meeting of the American College of Clinical Oncology to have found that high-dose chemotherapy, done in conjunction with bone-marrow transplantation, prolonged the lives of some women with advanced breast cancer. It was the only study among five presented that supported the taxing treatment, and its remarkable findings were the talk of cancer researchers, who started looking at how to test the treatment on a far bigger sample of patients. But in a news conference today after a disciplinary hearing for Dr. Bezwoda, Colin Bundy, the vice chancellor of Witwatersrand, said the university concluded that he had misrepresented the results of his study and misled colleagues, the public and, most importantly, his patients.
Eldridge Lee, a real estate broker and adjunct college professor in Fairburn, Ga., found out that he had Type 2 diabetes more than a decade ago. But he did not take the disease seriously until two years ago, when sky-high blood pressure -- a complication of diabetes -- led to heart disease. ''After coming out of heart surgery, I was sitting with a ventilator down my throat and had a moment of realization that the diabetes, which I had pretty much been ignoring, had led to this problem with my heart,'' said Mr. Lee, 53, who now controls his blood pressure, cholesterol and blood sugar with diet, exercise and six drugs. Like Mr. Lee, many of the nation's 17 million diabetics -- and even their doctors -- miss the connection between high blood pressure and diabetes. Studies show that cardiovascular disease, set off mainly by hypertension, is the leading cause of death among people with diabetes, and two of every three diabetes-related deaths are caused by heart disease or stroke.
The infielder said he often heard players muttering that an opponent is ''juiced'' after a home run. ''I've heard it a bunch of times,'' he said. ''It's the first thing that comes to mind when someone hits one really deep. Oh, he's on steroids.'' Darrin Jackson, an outfielder who retired from the Chicago White Sox last year, said he sometimes found it difficult to resist the suspicion that other players were using muscle-building drugs. ''I've even heard myself say that,'' Jackson said. ''I go home and all winter long I work out five days a week with a personal trainer and I come back maybe 10 pounds heavier. You say, 'How did this guy put on 30 pounds over the winter?' '' Anabolic steroids are derivatives or precursors of testosterone, the body's main muscle builder. They allow an athlete to gain more muscle mass in less time by helping the body recover faster from workouts.
Patients respond differently to statins, with some achieving more success in cholesterol reduction than others, Dr. Snow said. But, she said, ''our goal is not necessarily to get to a certain level of cholesterol, but to decrease heart attacks and strokes, and you can reduce that risk with a certain dose of statin.''
Dr. Mitchell Creinin runs an abortion clinic in Pittsburgh and has become something of an expert on the abortion-inducing pill, mifepristone, which was approved for sale in the United States on Thursday. Dr. Creinin has provided the pill to women in research studies, and he has traveled the country giving seminars to doctors who are considering offering the drug to their patients. But, he said, while hundreds of doctors -- family practitioners and obstetricians -- have attended his  seminars thinking that they could begin providing mifepristone to patients seeking abortions, their eagerness to prescribe the pill often diminished as they heard him talk. Mifepristone has been hailed as a change in the politics of abortion, making a decision to end a pregnancy a private matter between a woman and her doctor. Supporters have predicted that the pill will lead to more doctors providing abortions. Doctors, some hoped, would simply provide mifepristone pills in the same way as they might write a prescription for birth control pills. But the reality, in the immediate future, at least, could be different. In fact, acceptance of the pill and the character of the national debate on abortion may be decided in the fall  election. [News analysis, Page A10.]
There is one point that comes up again and again in discussions of Slavin and Moore and Catalona: like it or not, we live in a market-driven society, and science is part of that market. For Baruch Blumberg, the researcher who used Ted Slavin's antibodies in his hepatitis B research, that is a reality that science is still learning to navigate. During my visits to the Fox Chase Cancer Center to meet with O'Connell and learn about Slavin, I drove around Philadelphia with Blumberg, who is now 80. After decades of hepatitis B research, he needed a break from focusing on so much illness, suffering and death, and so he spent a few years working with NASA, studying the origin of life forms. In the car one evening, I asked Blumberg what he thought about the debate over tissue ownership. Instead of answering, he told me how the technology for air bags came from medical devices designed by NASA. I asked again, and he pointed out Venus and Mars, which were bright and hovering above us. Finally, after my third try, he turned to me and sighed. ''Whether you think the commercialization of medical research is good or bad depends on how into capitalism you are,'' he said. On the whole, Blumberg said, commercialization is good -- how else would we get the drugs and diagnostic tests we need? Still, he sees a downside. ''I think it's fair to say it's interfered with science,'' he told me, gazing up at the sky. ''It's changed the spirits.'' Now there are patents and proprietary information where there was free information flow, he said.
Three other health centers upstate and one on Long Island will also take part. Dr. Henschke said she would be the project's principal investigator. Patients have converged on many radiologists and other doctors who offer the CT scan, hoping to detect potentially deadly tumors as early as possible. Lung cancer is the country's leading cause of cancer deaths, with about 157,000 each year. ''I don't think recruitment is going to be a problem,'' Dr. Mitchell said. But the popularity of spiral CT screening is troubling to some doctors, including Dr. Barnett Kramer of the National Institutes of Health, who believe the scans may help cancer detection but do nothing to help patients live longer. Despite those concerns, ''Most people believe this is worthy of a trial,'' Dr. Stocker said. Correction:  August 22, 2000, Tuesday  An article yesterday about a medical study of an experimental X-ray screening test for diagnosing and treating early stages of lung cancer paraphrased one doctor's concerns about the test incorrectly. The doctor, Barnett Kramer of the National Institutes of Health, says that although the test, known as spiral CT screening, may help cancer detection, whether it will help patients live longer remains undetermined. He did not say that the test does nothing to help patients live longer.
In one of the most expansive collaborations between a major medical center and a New York community hospital, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center will help establish a cancer prevention and treatment center at the North General Hospital in Harlem, executives at both centers said yesterday. The center will be known as the Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Prevention and Care, reflecting a $5 million gift from the fashion designer's company. The creation of the center, which is expected to be announced today, springs in part from years of research demonstrating large disparities between blacks and whites in cancer detection and survival rates, as well as Mr. Lauren's interest in breast cancer philanthropy. The center also reflects a subtle but significant shift in the role that Sloan-Kettering, now under the leadership of Dr. Harold Varmus, plays in areas where most people lack access to basic care, let alone the cutting-edge research and high-profile doctors for which Sloan-Kettering is internationally known.
''Privacy is just that much more on people's minds these days,'' said John Gilmore, co-founder of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an Internet and civil rights group. People are starting to hear about friends who have had their Social Security numbers or credit card numbers stolen. Or they have read news reports about DoubleClick, an Internet advertising company that had planned to match data about people's surfing habits with information identifying the people involved. ''The relentless advertising nature of so many of the commercial Internet companies is partly driving the public reaction,'' Mr. Gilmore said. ''People are saying, We don't want this.'' To reach this new market, cryptographers are starting to realize that they must become less of an enigma to people. Zero-Knowledge, for example, has started posting essays under the heading Demystifying Cryptography on its Web site. Meanwhile, the companies are enjoying the kind of growth familiar to Internet start-ups, and the perks as well. Hush Communications, now based in Ireland, has doubled in size in the last few months to include more than 30 people. Anonymizer.com has an arcade game in its office, offers its employees unlimited soft drinks and will soon move into a larger office in downtown San Diego.  Zero-Knowledge has swelled to 200 employees; it is building a new office in Montreal with a massage room, a cappuccino stand, a rooftop terrace and free laundry services (a bonus to computer programmers who come from a culture that values smart code over personal hygiene).
FOR a man who is supposed to be sitting on top of the world, Thomas B. Okarma can be a bit prickly. ''I may sound offensive, but we are being invaded here,'' he said recently, reflecting the strain of giving many interviews. Dr. Okarma is the chief executive of the Geron Corporation, which controls many of the rights to human embryonic stem cells because it financed the first isolation of such cells, which occurred in 1998 at the University of Wisconsin. Stem cells might someday be used to grow new heart, liver or brain tissue for people whose own organs are damaged, allowing the body to repair itself. On Aug. 9, President Bush said he would allow federal funds to be used for research on human embryonic stem cells, which could help scientists to accelerate the development of disease treatments that would mean income for Geron in the long run. The president's decision to restrict federally financed research to cell lines that already exist, some scientists say, will virtually force them to use cells for which Geron controls the commercial rights.
Most scientists say Dr. Mattick's views, although intriguing, are not backed by much evidence. Rather than upending the central dogma, they say, the new findings just add some tenets. It has long been known that RNA is more than a messenger. The ribosome, which makes proteins, is made partly of RNA. Another type of RNA, called transfer RNA, aids in protein production. Some scientists say it is not surprising that RNA has multiple roles, because it is generally believed that RNA had the role of both proteins and DNA in the early days of life on earth. ''We still have a lot of remnants from that,'' said Dr. Stephen R. Holbrook, a scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory. The recent excitement has been generated by two discoveries related to small RNA snippets and their ability to turn off genes. Some genes, scientists found, produce tiny RNA's, known as micro-RNA's or miRNA, which are about 21 to 23 bases, or letters, in length. The micro-RNA's bind to matching pieces of messenger RNA, turn it into a double strand and keep it from doing its job. The process effectively stifles the production of the corresponding protein.
Now Pfizer says it has changed its strategy. Dr. Joseph Feczko, Pfizer's chief medical officer, said Monday that Pfizer expected to offer torcetrapib as a standalone drug as well as a combination with Lipitor. The change comes in part because of the criticism that Pfizer has faced, Dr. Feczko said. ''We didn't appreciate how this would be perceived,'' he said. As a result, patients will be able to take torcetrapib alongside whatever statin they now use, or even as a standalone pill, though Pfizer expects that doctors will generally prescribe torcetrapib as a complement to statins, not by itself. Whatever Pfizer's motives for the change, the company's action is positive, said Dr. Bruce M. Psaty, a professor of medicine and epidemiology at the University of Washington. ''This seems like an appropriate way to bring a potentially important drug to market,'' he said. ''Flexibility is important.'' Dr. Steven Nissen, president of the American College of Cardiology, lauded Pfizer for its decision. ''They're doing the right thing,'' he said. ''Pfizer is allowing physicians to make intelligent choices for patients.''
He said the athletes were so competitive that they pushed themselves to exhaustion. ''We had the world cross-country cycling champion on his knees,'' Dr. Benardot said. The test puts athletes on a bicycle connected to a computer. The computer adds 7 percent of the athlete's body weight as resistance, and then the athlete sprints as hard as he or she can for 30 seconds. Five minutes later, the athlete does it again. Not only did those eating the energy bars do better on the test, they also said they did not feel hungry and that they felt more vigorous, Dr. Benardot said. And, to his astonishment, the changes occurred in just two weeks. ''After the study was over, those who had the bars kept coming to us saying: 'Do you have any more of those bars? What was in them, really?' '' Dr. Benardot said. ''Some of them thought it was illegal.''
Many Christians who are active in the evolving anti-birth-control arena state frankly that what links their efforts is a religious commitment to altering the moral landscape of the country. In particular, and not to put too fine a point on it, they want to change the way Americans have sex. Dr. Stanford, the F.D.A. adviser on reproductive-health drugs, proclaimed himself ''fully committed to promoting an understanding of human sexuality and procreation radically at odds with the prevailing views and practices of our contemporary culture.'' Focus on the Family posts a kind of contraceptive warning label on its Web site: ''Modern contraceptive inventions have given many an exaggerated sense of safety and prompted more people than ever before to move sexual expression outside the marriage boundary.'' Contraception, by this logic, encourages sexual promiscuity, sexual deviance (like homosexuality) and a preoccupation with sex that is unhealthful even within marriage. It may be news to many people that contraception as a matter of right and public health is no longer a given, but politicians and those in the public health profession know it well. ''The linking of abortion and contraception is indicative of a larger agenda, which is putting sex back into the box, as something that happens only within marriage,'' says William Smith, vice president for public policy for the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States. Siecus has been around since 1964, and as a group that supports abortion rights, it is natural enemies with many organizations on the right, but its mission has changed in recent years, from doing things like promoting condoms as a way to combat AIDS to, now, fighting to maintain the very idea of birth control as a social good. ''Whether it's emergency contraception, sex education or abortion, anything that might be seen as facilitating sex outside a marital context is what they'd like to see obliterated,'' Smith says.
Even so, critics maintain that concierge services violate the spirit, if not the letter, of federal Medicare law, which aspires to regulate doctors' fees to a uniform standard and streamline access to medical care for the old and infirm. After five senators wrote a letter of complaint to the Department of Health and Human Services in 2002, a formal examination was begun. Tommy G. Thompson, who headed the department at that time, concluded that as long as the retainer fee was clearly for services not covered by Medicare, collecting the fees did not violate the law. Subsequently, the Government Accountability Office examined trends in concierge medicine and concluded, in a report in August 2005, that the number of concierge physicians nationwide was still too small for the practice to limit Medicare patients' access to health care, but that the government would continue to monitor trends. Some argue that concierge services actually save health care dollars. In Florida, for instance, internal MDVIP statistics indicate that concierge patients receive screening exams like mammograms and Pap smears more regularly than those with commercial insurance, and they require fewer hospital admissions, said Darin Engelhardt, the company's chief financial officer.
Many doctors say that for women to turn their backs on hormone replacement therapy would be a gross overreaction. ''I don't think we should throw out the baby with the bath water just because of this one study,'' said Dr. Daniel R. Mishell, chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Southern California's Keck School of Medicine. Dr. Mishell and others point out that the increased risk of breast cancer and cardiovascular problems for a woman in the federal study was small. Many doctors still say that taking hormones for two to four years, to treat temporary symptoms of menopause, is probably safe for most women. And the fact is, nothing else works as well as estrogen to relieve hot flashes and vaginal dryness. Still, the news from the Women's Health Initiative study is prompting a reassessment of the standard regimen of hormone replacement therapy. It seems likely that in the months ahead, many doctors will be prescribing formulations of estrogen and progestin that are tailored to each woman's health and personal preferences. Some women will opt for lower doses, and some will forgo hormones altogether in favor of other remedies.
Doubts about mammography are not new. Though many women and their doctors think of annual mammograms after age 40 as normal and necessary, there have long been vocal skeptics. Their dissident view about the usefulness of mammograms may seem to have been fully validated by the study published this fall in The Lancet, concluding that women who have mammography die of breast cancer at the same rate as those who don't. But the issue of breast cancer screening isn't so easily settled. For most of the 20th century, physicians thought that breast cancer was a local disease that only spread to the rest of the body late in its course. Early detection, they assumed, meant that the cancer would be caught and treated before it could kill. So it made perfect sense that the American Cancer Society began in the 1950's to encourage women to perform breast self-examinations and in the 1970's to recommend mammograms.
Despite this push, Dr. Manson said women should not assume that new versions are safer. ''Until proven otherwise we should assume all medications in a similar class have similar risk,'' she said. ''It's biologically plausible that a lower dose might have a lower risk but we don't know yet.'' Natalie de Vane, a spokeswoman for Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, the maker of Prempro and Premarin, confirmed that the new low-dose versions were playing an important role in stabilizing sales. But she acknowledged that the new products had not been studied as extensively as those examined in the Women's Health Initiative. ''We do not have data evaluating those particular risks,'' she said. ''Regardless of the dose, the decision to initiate or continue therapy needs to be made on an individual basis, taking into account a woman's treatment goals, and personal medical history.'' Part of the confusion surrounding the subject comes from the difficulty in making those kinds of judgments. Because no significant benefits were found for older women taking hormones, for them, any increase in risk was judged to be unacceptable.
Nonetheless, most ambulances do not consider stroke center designations when they transport patients. And, said John Becknell, a spokesman for the National Association of Emergency Medical Technicians, national programs can be difficult because every community has its own rules for which ambulances pick up patients and where they take them. As a result, most stroke patients have no access to the recommended care and even fewer get M.R.I.'s, a situation Dr. Warach said he found appalling. ''How can it ever be in the patient's best interest to have an inferior diagnosis?'' he asked. ''It borders on malpractice that given a choice between two noninvasive tests, one of which is clearly superior, the worse test is the one that is preferred.'' Averting Catastrophe In those awful moments when she realized she had had a stroke, Dr. Fite, unlike most patients, knew what to do. She told the ambulance crew to take her to Memorial Hermann Hospital, even though it was about an hour away. She knew that it was one of the Houston stroke centers, that Dr. Grotta worked there, and that its doctors had experience diagnosing strokes and giving tPA.
The length of time that Poehlman perpetrated his fraud -- 10 years -- and its scope make his case unique, even among the most egregious examples of scientific misconduct. Some scientists believe that his ability to beat the system for so long had as much to do with the research topics he chose as with his aggressive tactics. His work was prominent, but none of his studies broke new scientific ground. (This may also be why no other scientists working in the field have retracted papers as a result of Poehlman's fraud.) By testing undisputed assumptions on popular topics, Poehlman attracted enough attention to maintain his status but not enough to invite suspicion. Moreover, replicating his longitudinal data would be expensive and difficult to do. ''Eric excelled at telling us what we wanted to hear,'' Matthews, Poehlman's former colleague, told me. ''He published results that confirmed our predisposed hypotheses.'' Steven Heymsfield, an obesity researcher at Merck Pharmaceuticals in New Jersey, echoed Matthews's sentiments and added that Poehlman's success owed more to his business sense and charisma than to his aptitude as a scientist.
In the study, obese rats that were genetically modified to have low levels of leptin produced higher amounts of endocannabinoids. When the rats were given leptin, the endocannabinoid levels dropped. Yet another study on cannabinoids published last year may explain why marijuana makes people feel good. According to the study published in Science, cannabinoids,  through a complex chain of events, rev up the dopamine system. Like other addictive substances, marijuana appears to hijack brain circuitry that evolved to help people find their way back to a food source or sexual partner. Normally the neurotransmitters and receptors ''are doing a long, slow dance,'' Dr. Wilson said. ''Drugs of abuse crash the party and bring the booze.'' Perhaps the most contentious issue has been the question of whether marijuana could be addictive. For the many Americans whose experience with marijuana was pleasant and brief, it may be hard to believe that the drug can be strongly addictive.
New Jersey lost 7 percent of its mammography centers over the last 18 months alone, going to 263 facilities from 283. Since 1994, there has been an overall drop of 9.6 percent in the state, mirroring national declines. By contrast, the number of women in the state receiving mammograms is increasing. About 451,000 women in the state turn 40 each year, the age at which health officials advise women to begin mammogram testing. Most authorities regard mammograms as the best available tool for early cancer detection despite some widely reported -- and widely disputed -- studies suggesting that regular mammograms do not lower the risk of dying from cancer. ''With more and more women becoming eligible and more and more facilities closing it doesn't take a rocket scientist to realize that pretty soon there will be a vast access problem,'' said Joshua J. Cooper, the Congressional relations director for the American College of Radiology, a professional society for radiologists, radiation oncologists and medical physicists.
Dr. Nissen says he focuses on L.D.L. so much that he mostly discounts H.D.L. in deciding whether to give cholesterol-lowering drugs to patients with heart disease or to those with high L.D.L. levels and other risk factors like high blood pressure or a family history of heart disease. He notes that statins are safe drugs that reduce L.D.L. levels and that study after study has shown that lowering L.D.L. prevents heart attacks and deaths. He says that recent research bears him out. His study, published this month in the Journal of the American Medical Association, looked directly at the accumulation of plaque in coronary arteries when heart patients took cholesterol-lowering drugs. Their H.D.L. levels, he said, played no role in plaque growth; the only thing that mattered was what happened to L.D.L. When L.D.L. levels dropped, plaque growth slowed. That means, Dr. Nissen concludes, that the benefit of lowering L.D.L. is the same whether H.D.L. levels are high or low.
In State Supreme Court in Brooklyn in 1986, Dr. DiBlasio was convicted of possessing and selling narcotics and sentenced to 21 years to life in prison. The following year, the state revoked his license to practice medicine. But Dr. DiBlasio appealed his criminal convictions and the license revocation. Eventually, his conviction for selling drugs was overturned. At retrial, he was convicted of a less serious charge, possession of a controlled substance (cocaine), and  was released from jail in early 1992, state records show. From there, Dr. DiBlasio began the numerous appeals that led to the reinstatement of his medical license in 1995. Dr. Bier's past troubles stemmed from billing practices, said officials who once worked for an insurance carrier, Group Health Inc., that has an extensive network of doctors that had included Dr. Bier. In the early 1990's, a standard review of the doctors' practices revealed that Dr. Bier's bills were roughly $80,000 a year higher on average than other radiologists', and that he was ordering hundreds more tests than the others, said Harvey Schachter, the former vice president for professional affairs at G.H.I.
The other problem I hadn't attributed to menopause was depression. I chalked it up to my kids growing up and leaving home. But as soon as I started on hormones, that disappeared, too, and my energy returned. I did have problems with breakthrough bleeding, which isn't something you want to deal with after you haven't had your period for a while. They tried a D. &amp; C., then increased my progestin, but I gained a lot of weight. I seriously considered going off hormones because of that, but I kept coming back to how  much better it made me feel. Now I'm taking a new drug, femhrt, which is a synthetic and has a smaller dose of progestin. I'm feeling much better. But I will admit the breast cancer piece is worrisome. The only person in my family who had it was my maternal aunt, and I decided she was far enough removed in the family tree to not make that a major factor in my decision.
The study also found that children who ate family dinners often tended to have healthier diets throughout the day. ''In terms of teaching your children good habits, the dinner table is great,'' said Dr. Michael Rosenbaum, an associate professor of clinical pediatrics and medicine at New York Presbyterian Hospital at Columbia University, who did not participate in the study. ''It's not like saying, 'do your homework before television,' '' he added. ''It's a fun  way to teach healthy habits. No one can set a better example regarding healthy eating than parents. And there is a tremendous amount of data to show that healthy habits learned early persist into adulthood.'' Dr. Loraine Stern, co-editor of ''The American Academy of Pediatrics Guide to Your Child's Nutrition'' (Villard, 1999), said: ''We know that families that sit together and have civilized meals can instill better eating habits. It's not because parents are more directive about what children eat, because that can be counterproductive to be so controlling. It's because when parents share meals, it usually means there are more healthful choices on the table.''
Dr. Kaminetsky counters with his own story. Had he not found this way of practicing medicine, he said, he would no longer be seeing patients at all: he would be in a desk job with a pharmaceutical company. A detail-oriented perfectionist who routinely works through lunch and still does his own filing, he was tormented in his previous practice by the impossibility of meeting his own standards. ''I hated it,'' Dr. Kaminetsky said. ''It was awful. Patients always had a litany of complaints. Driving home, I would think, 'Oh my God, I never saw this test, I never called that patient back.' Some people are not as easily distressed by loose ends. I don't like leaving things undone.'' Now on his busiest days he sees perhaps half the number of patients he used to, spends twice as long with each one and has the time to make every last phone call.
''As far as I'm concerned, we're saving Medicare money,'' Dr. Kaminetsky said. He pointed to cases like that of Philip Novack, 94. For Mr. Novack, who is in fragile health, Dr. Kaminetsky's office often becomes a low-stress alternative to the emergency room. One morning last summer, Mr. Novack woke up at 5 a.m. feeling unwell and asked his wife, Edythe Shane-Novack, to call an ambulance. A veteran of many similar emergencies, she waited till 9:02 a.m. and called Dr. Kaminetsky's office instead. Less than three hours later Mr. Novack was perched on an examining table, smiling at the familiar faces in the office and receiving the same evaluation he would have had in the emergency room, including blood tests, an X-ray and a cardiogram. The diagnosis, a slight imbalance in his blood sodium level, was made promptly, and Mr. Novack was better by the next morning. Instead of paying expensive emergency fees, Medicare would pay only for an office visit. ''This is the best thing that ever happened to us,'' Mrs. Shane-Novack said.
Medical experts predict that the number of pertussis cases will continue to grow rapidly over the next few years until a large part of the population has been exposed and develops immunity. In the meantime, public health officials warn parents to protect their infants by strictly adhering to vaccination schedules. Delaying inoculations by even a month or two can make children more vulnerable. And experts say to keep babies away from people who have coughs. ''Don't think grandma just has a cold because maybe not,'' Dr. Cortese said.
''It's better than anything we had hoped for,'' said Dr. Dale Schenk,  Elan's vice president of neurobiology. ''We actually think the vaccine is stimulating the immune system to come in and take up the plaque.'' Dr. Ivan M. Lieberburg, senior vice president of research at Elan Pharmaceuticals, said the company was ''moving forward to clinical trials aggressively.'' The Elan researchers immunized the mice with a synthetic form of the beta-amyloid peptide, which is the predominant compound found in the plaques in patients' brains. They linked the peptide to an immune system stimulus, or adjuvant, that is commonly used in mouse studies. The adjuvant prompts the immune system to attack the amyloid plaques it would otherwise ignore. The adjuvant used in the mice is not tolerated by people, though the researchers said that designing one that was tolerated was not regarded as a major hurdle. The mice had been implanted with a mutated human gene that prompts the overproduction of amyloid, but that mutation is only found in a minority of actual Alzheimer's patients, those with so-called familial Alzheimer's, rather than the more common sporadic form. People with sporadic Alzheimer's do not overproduce amyloid, but instead seem to have a problem clearing it from the body. The only way to determine whether the vaccine is effective for them would be through clinical trials.
Dr. Fox noted that ''there are states that screen for galactosemia, and that incidence is 1 in 60,000, and states that don't screen for sickle cell anemia, and that incidence is 1 in 600.'' ''That's a reason to have this task force,'' Dr. Fox added. Another reason is the march of technology. Tandem mass spectrometry, which can precisely and efficiently count blood components that become elevated with certain disorders, is catching on. And as some states start using it, the gap between them and states that do not may become a chasm. New parents can ask their hospitals to order the testing, but most do not even know to ask, and most hospitals do not offer it routinely. Dr. Edwin W. Naylor, president of Neo Gen Screening Inc. of Pittsburgh, the leading private laboratory specializing in spectrometry testing, estimates that, based on data he has collected, of the four million babies born in the United States every year, about 1,000 suffer from conditions, mainly metabolic disorders, that can only be screened for by using tandem mass spectrometry.
As it turns out, the debates have paralyzed the political system not only on the broadest issue -- whether and how to move to universal health insurance -- but also on what seems, at first glance, a narrow one. Otherwise, it wouldn't be this hard. The elderly are supposed to be the 800-pound gorillas of American politics, the ones who show up, disproportionately, to vote and whose needs get met, pronto. And it is difficult to argue with their needs. While more than two-thirds of the elderly piece together some coverage for drugs, mostly from former employers or H.M.O.'s, their coverage is increasingly limited and unreliable. And the cost of drugs keeps climbing. Medicare beneficiaries spent an average of $813, out of pocket, on prescription drugs in 2000 and $928 in 2001, and are spending $1,051 in 2002, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health research group. A reporter visiting senior centers with Congressional candidates routinely hears older people, on the verge of tears, recite their monthly bills and their monthly Social Security check and plead for help. The oldest are among the most vulnerable; an estimated 45 percent of those 85 and older have no prescription drug coverage.
The moment registration opens, Michele D. Hannah dives for courses with the fury of a fifth-year college student vexed by a constant riddle. ''When will I get the classes I need to graduate?'' said Ms. Hannah, Class of ''I have no idea'' at the University of Iowa. Classes have gotten so tight, or so scarce, that Ms. Hannah says she trolls the university's Web site like a day trader, checking every few hours for the stray course opening that might suddenly appear. But it probably will not. At many public universities, grappling with record budget cuts and enrollments at the same time, the classroom is no longer being spared. After whittling away at staff, coaxing faculty members to juggle more classes, stripping sports teams and trusting aging roofs to hold out a few years longer, many public universities have reluctantly begun chopping away at academics, making it harder for students to graduate on time.
Other companies have declined to publish commercially valuable genetic sequence data, not writing papers at all, and selling the data instead. ''We're trying to run a business here, not put things in Science magazine,'' said Roy Whitfield, the chief executive of Incyte Genomics, a company in Palo Alto, Calif., that has genetic sequences of individual human genes. But the human genome sequence papers were widely thought to be of historic importance, scientists said. So, Dr. Kennedy said, he spent months listening to researchers with opinions on what he should require Celera to do. He relied on neutral negotiators to serve as go-betweens. ''We heard from a number of people saying, 'What are you doing? What are you up to?'' Dr. Kennedy said. ''Are you going to violate the traditional norms of scientific publication?' '' He said leaders of the public genome project told him that whether they would publish in Science or a competing journal depended on whether they were comfortable with Science's decision about Celera's data.
The letter was signed by luminaries from an array of disciplines. Among the Nobel winners are David Baltimore and Harold Varmus, both biomedical researchers, and Leon M. Lederman, Norman F. Ramsey and Steven Weinberg, who are physicists. The full list of signatories and the union's report can be found at www.ucsusa.org. Aside from some new interviews with current and former government scientists, some identified in the report and others quoted anonymously, most of the information in the documents had been reported previously by a variety of major newspapers, magazines, scientific journals and nongovernmental organizations. According to the report, the Bush administration has misrepresented scientific consensus on global warming, censored at least one report on climate change, manipulated scientific findings on the emissions of mercury from power plants and suppressed information on condom use. The report asserts that the administration also allowed industries with conflicts of interest to influence technical advisory committees, disbanded for political reasons one panel on arms control and subjected other prospective members of scientific panels to political litmus tests.
But the study has little relevance to the current understanding of how to control weight, said Dr. Stunkard, who specializes in the treatment of obesity and eating disorders. The 100 patients in the study were ''just given a diet and sent on their way,'' he said. ''That was state of the art in 1959,'' he added. ''I've been sort of surprised that people keep citing it; I know we do better these days.'' The intervening years have brought significant changes to the treatment of obesity, the most important of which, Dr. Stunkard said, has been the introduction of behavior modification techniques. Since the 1959 study, though, the statistic has been reinforced by most  other clinical studies, which also showed people with discouraging results. ''Unless we can prove they're typical, the data cannot be generalized,'' Dr. Brownell said. ''The people we see in clinics tend to be more overweight and have more psychological problems. They are more likely by a factor of two to have binge-eating problems.''
Clonaid has a list of a hundred people who have expressed interest in its services, most of them would-be parents with severe infertility problems, a handful of them homosexual couples. ''In some cases,'' Boisselier conceded, ''they could go to a sperm bank and so on, but they felt better about having a child with their own genes. I think it's probably written in us to have a succession of our genes.'' But lately, she was getting calls mainly from the parents of children who have died -- infants, teenagers, young adults -- though few of the callers had the foresight, or whatever one would call it, to freeze the tissue that would make cloning the dead even theoretically possible. Boisselier finished her salad and started in on a story about a woman she knows who was badly injured in a car accident, and who, though she eventually recovered physically, lost all memory of her previous life. At first, I couldn't see where this was going. ''Her family could hardly recognize her,'' she explained. ''Because she has no memory of the past, no emotions connected to it.'' That must have been hard for the family, I said. ''Yes, they were surprised,'' said Boisselier, who then added -- and this turned out to be the point of the story -- This lady was a good example of what a clone would be.'' That is, she looked the same, but lacked the experiences and associations that had made her dear to the people who wanted to bring her back in the first place. It was an indictment of the whole concept, and yet Boisselier didn't seem remotely aware of this, didn't seem to realize that if a person was unique and therefore by definition irreplaceable, then the quest to replace him was misguided and the encouragement of it cruel. Either our genes determine us or they don't, but if they don't, then cloning for the purpose of replicating a person is pointless. It holds forth the promise of unprecedented control -- manufacturing a human being who will share specific traits with a preapproved model -- but it cannot deliver.
Now, here's a scary statistic: although all American health care workers are strongly urged to get a flu shot each year, fewer than 40 percent typically do. According to flu experts, many doctors and nurses still don't realize the extent to which their personal lack of immunization threatens the health -- or even survival -- of their patients. In recent weeks, several major health organizations, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the American Nurses Association and the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations have proposed recommendations aimed at greatly increasing that vaccination rate. A few groups have called for making influenza immunizations mandatory for nearly all health care workers. Most other organizations, including the C.D.C., stop short of that and suggest instead that hospitals and other medical institutions should bear more responsibility for educating employees and for making the vaccine more available throughout every shift, perhaps offering it free. All the groups agree that patients' lives are at stake.
Boston Scientific said yesterday that it supported the creation of an industrywide, independent safety board. James R. Tobin, chief executive of Boston Scientific, based in Natick, Mass, also said the company was adopting all the medical group's recommendations. The other two major heart device producers, Medtronic and St. Jude Medical, said separately that they were reviewing the safety board proposal. ''We want to look at it and talk about it some more,'' said Robert Clark, a spokesman for Medtronic, which is the country's biggest maker of defibrillators. Mr. Clark also said that Medtronic calls on outside experts on an ad hoc basis when a potential safety problem arises. But several experts said that such a system relied on company executives to decide that a problem existed, while outside experts might make that call more quickly. ''When you are a member of the team, it is hard not to think about the interests of the team rather than looking at the bigger picture,'' said Dr. Robert J. Myerburg, a professor of medicine at the University of Miami who headed the Guidant panel.
How long women should take letrozole is unknown. Because the study ended early, the data only show its effects for about two years. Dr. Abrams said the women in the study would be followed, providing information on whether the drug continues to be effective. But there will no longer be a placebo group. Also unknown is if every woman who has taken tamoxifen for five years should start on letrozole. Women just coming off of tamoxifen should strongly consider it, researchers say. But there are no answers yet for women who stopped taking tamoxifen six months ago or longer. ''That's going to be one of the challenges,'' Dr. Ingle said. ''We do not have clinical trial evidence,'' he noted, ''but because breast cancer risk continues indefinitely, there is no reason to think women wouldn't benefit.'' Another issue to be resolved is whether letrozole is the best of the aromatase inhibitors. Two other aromatase inhibitors are on the market: anastrozole, which AstraZeneca sells as Arimidex, and exemestane, which Pfizer sells as Aromasin. Studies are under way to assess their effectiveness in protecting against breast cancer recurrences.
Stony Brook was in the top quarter of hospitals nationwide for heart attack patients, and was one of the better large hospitals on the Island on all three of the Hospital Compare measures. Still, it failed to deliver appropriate care in dozens of cases. ''There are a lot of doctors who don't follow the guidelines, and aren't up to date on the literature,'' said Dr. Brown. ''That's what these public scorecards are designed to do -- embarrass or educate people to do things the right way. They may think they're doing pretty well, but when you actually show them the numbers, it's clear that they're not.'' St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, which calls itself ''the heart center'' and had consistently posted below-average death rates for coronary bypass operations on a state report card until 2002, was not in the top third of hospitals nationwide on any of the Hospital Compare measures. The hospital failed to deliver appropriate care 203 times out of 2,098 cases involving heart attack and heart failure patients.
Yet, with all this, including the clamor to retain and even expand that big government program -- Medicare -- we still can't envision getting to where we need to be because of our cynicism and distrust of government! John Schlager  Springfield, N.J., Jan. 1, 2007 To the Editor: Paul Krugman's appeal for universal health care is right on. While we suffer without the assurance of annual checkups, France, Canada, Scandinavia, Germany, Britain and others find it within their economic abilities to leave no person without annual medical exams and more. The principal reason for our haplessness is, as Mr. Krugman wrote, the lobbying power of insurance businesses. Just why their intrusion into the equation is tolerated is beyond logic. I never saw an insurance agent cure so much as a hangnail. Gil Weiss  Stamford, Conn., Jan. 1, 2007
We certainly aren't alone: according to the National Resident Matching Program, the organization that coordinates placement for postgraduate medical training, the number of primary care residency programs has dropped by more than a third over the past decade. And most of those remaining are now smaller. During the same period, the number of doctors applying for postgraduate training overall has increased. ''When students come to medical school, being somebody's doctor is really what they want to do. Somehow, by the time they leave, we've changed their minds; they'd rather do just about anything but that.'' That's the assessment of Dr. Allan Goroll, an early advocate of primary care training and the author of the most widely used textbook in primary care medicine. What happened? Why don't medical-school graduates want to be ''somebody's doctor'' anymore? And it's not just doctors: patients, even those with insurance, are voting with their feet, increasingly choosing to visit emergency rooms and specialists directly. Is this just the marketplace speaking? Or could it be that the idea of the personal physician is out of date and that the time has come to retire the picture of Marcus Welby?
For now, most patients in Russia and the other countries can receive ranolazine as part of large safety studies that follow the trials on the drug's effectiveness. But those studies will end, and Dr. Lange says he does not relish taking the drug away from people being helped by it. In the United States, patients who participate in clinical trials often continue to receive the drug being tested until it is approved. After that, they can buy it or, if they cannot afford it, apply to special programs that most companies offer to help people who could not otherwise get drugs they need. But with the exception of AIDS drugs, which companies provide free or at low cost to patients in poor countries, there is no industry consensus about what to do internationally, especially when drugs are not lifesaving. And even when companies market their drugs in poor countries, they tend not to set up a system to give the drugs away to study subjects after a clinical trial ends.
The F.D.A. is now rushing to put into effect a rule first proposed in late 1999, during Dr. Henney's tenure, that would allow data from animal studies to be used in place of human testing when it is impossible or unethical to do tests on patients. But the agency is reluctant to relax its standards too much. Even though the nation is now in the midst of an anthrax attack, the only manufacturer of anthrax vaccine, the Bioport Corporation of Lansing, Mich., has been unable to supply its product because its factory has failed F.D.A. safety inspections. Earlier this month, BioPort applied for another inspection, which could take place in coming weeks. Dr. Janet Woodcock, director of the F.D.A.'s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said the agency had faced similar questions before. When patients with cancer and AIDS pushed for more access to experimental drugs, the F.D.A. adopted procedures to speed approval of drugs for life-threatening illnesses and allowed for some experimental drugs to be made available.
Placebos are still needed in clinical research, Dr. Hrobjartsson said, to prevent researchers from knowing who is getting a real treatment. Otherwise, he said, researchers can end up seeing what they want to see. For example, they may notice changes in patients who are taking an active drug while not paying as much attention to similar symptoms in patients that they know are being left untreated. Patients, he said, who are told they are not being treated may leave the study, further complicating research efforts. Dr. Hrobjartsson and Dr. Gotzsche said they began their study out of curiosity. Over and over, medical journals and textbooks asserted that placebo effects were so powerful that, on average, 35 percent of patients would improve simply if they were told that a dummy treatment was real. The investigators began asking where this assessment came from. Every paper, Dr. Hrobjartsson said, seemed to refer to other papers. And those papers referred him to other papers. He began peeling back the onion, finally coming to the original paper. It was written by a Boston doctor, Henry Beecher, who had been chief of anesthesiology at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston and in 1955 published a paper, ''The Powerful Placebo'' in The Journal of the American Medical Association.
Researchers at the University of Florida reported today that transplanting human embryonic or fetal tissue into people with spinal cord injuries appeared to be safe. The study is the first in the United States to perform such implants in humans. In two papers released today in The Journal of Neurotrauma, research scientists at the university's McKnight Brain Institute report that the first two patients to undergo the procedure have experienced no ill effects. The research involved spinal cord cells from late embryos or early fetuses -- an embryo becomes a fetus at about eight weeks -- not stem cells, which have the potential to develop into many cell types. ''This was not a study that set out to find a cure for spinal cord injury,'' said Dr. Douglas K. Anderson, chairman of the department of neuroscience at the University of Florida's College of Medicine. ''We were looking to determine whether it was feasible to transplant this tissue into the spinal cord and whether it was procedurally safe to do so. And we've found that it is.''
''It's better than anything we had hoped for,'' said Dr. Dale Schenk,  Elan's vice president of neurobiology. ''We actually think the vaccine is stimulating the immune system to come in and take up the plaque.'' Dr. Ivan M. Lieberburg, senior vice president of research at Elan Pharmaceuticals, said the company was ''moving forward to clinical trials aggressively.'' The Elan researchers immunized the mice with a synthetic form of the beta-amyloid peptide, which is the predominant compound found in the plaques in patients' brains. They linked the peptide to an immune system stimulus, or adjuvant, that is commonly used in mouse studies. The adjuvant prompts the immune system to attack the amyloid plaques it would otherwise ignore. The adjuvant used in the mice is not tolerated by people, though the researchers said that designing one that was tolerated was not regarded as a major hurdle. The mice had been implanted with a mutated human gene that prompts the overproduction of amyloid, but that mutation is only found in a minority of actual Alzheimer's patients, those with so-called familial Alzheimer's, rather than the more common sporadic form. People with sporadic Alzheimer's do not overproduce amyloid, but instead seem to have a problem clearing it from the body. The only way to determine whether the vaccine is effective for them would be through clinical trials.
But is a mammogram -- a filmed image produced by extremely low-dose X-rays -- the best screening tool for everyone? It is certainly not perfect, as Dr. Berry would be the first to point out. According to studies cited by the National Cancer Institute, 10 to 20 percent of breast cancers detected by a physical exam were missed by a film mammogram. And even as Dr. Berry's new findings reinforce the traditional scan's overall value, some doctors have begun using other technologies -- digital mammography, ultrasound and M.R.I. scanning ( or, as some doctors call it, M.R.) -- to hunt for breast malignancies in some women. Are these other tests better? Not necessarily, according to Dr. Constance Lehman, a radiologist at the University of Washington, who is spearheading a large study of M.R.I.'s possible benefits for breast cancer patients. Recently, Dr. Lehman has also been fielding phone calls from healthy women seeking the new test, including some who want to bypass traditional mammography. She urges them not to make that mistake.
In a report of the work in today's issue of the journal Science, Dr. Alain Fischer, a professor of pediatric immunology at the Necker children's hospital in Paris, and his colleagues describe the course of two of the babies, 11 months and 8 months of age at the time of their treatment. Three months after the therapy, the researchers recounted, the babies were home, living like any other children. Ten months later, their immune systems were normal. Untreated infants born with SCID who are not kept in a sterile bubble become ill within months and die before their first birthday. In a footnote, the researchers say they have now successfully treated a third baby, who was a month old at the time. In a telephone interview, Dr. Fischer said yesterday that he had now treated two more babies and is waiting to learn whether the effort succeeded with them as well.
These patients were able to clear much of the Ebola out of their blood, then continued to produce both ''killer'' cells and interferon to suppress further multiplication of the  viruses. By contrast, the immune systems of the majority, those who did not survive the infection, failed to give a balanced defense  within the first two to three days after infection. They had a poor showing of antibodies, but at the same time apparently produced too much of the cellular kind of defense, as signaled by excessive production of interferon. One possibility is that the overly robust response of one part of the immune system may be giving falsely strong signals, thereby passing information that would suppress the other side of the defense. Or, possibly, the patient was infected by so much virus that it overwhelmed one half of the immune system's defenses. The lack of one kind of defense and excess of another suggests that a good strategy to attack Ebola infection may be to intervene in the body to balance the two kinds of defenses by enhancing one or depressing the other.
Several new breast cancer treatments may soon be available to lower a patient's risk of recurrence or simply be less invasive, less toxic and less burdensome than existing therapies. They are not miracle cures, but with cancer, treatment advances are typically small, adding up over time to make significant differences in patients' recovery. One advance that has generated excitement among oncologists is a class of drugs called aromatase inhibitors, a type of hormone therapy. Some predict that these drugs could replace tamoxifen, the most common drug for preventing the recurrence of breast cancer. The aromatase inhibitors are now approved for use in menopausal women with advanced or metastatic cancer. At the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium in December, researchers presented results of a large study comparing anastrazole, an aromatase inhibitor, to tamoxifen. The study, involving more than 9,000 women who had breast cancer and had undergone surgery and chemotherapy (if needed), found a 17 percent reduction in the risk of recurrence in those taking the aromatase inhibitor compared with those taking tamoxifen.
''No one thought that chronic myelogenous leukemia and GIST had anything in common five years ago,'' said Dr. Jonathan W. Simons, director of the Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University. ''One floats in your blood and one is a nasty lump of tumor in your stomach lining.'' Herceptin, a breast cancer drug, homes in on a particular molecule found in overabundance on the surface of about 30 percent of breast tumors and is given only to women with that tumor profile. Similarly, several drug companies are developing drugs to block another molecule that spurs rapid cell growth called the epidermal growth factor receptor, or E.G.F.R. Such drugs may work on lung, colon and pancreatic tumors that have active receptors, but not on the lung, colon and pancreatic cancers that do not. Still, some experts say, scientists will never be able to ignore completely the site in the body the cancer started because the location also helps determine tumor behavior.
And the tall block buildings are now left standing; the children, now more hopeful, add fire escapes and hang paper ladders down the sides. Yet this hard-won progress is fragile. The impending end of the school year has brought new worries, about leaving friends, about going to camp, about returning next year to another September. And when the adults around them become anxious, unsettled by headlines about the possibility of dirty bombs, nuclear weapons or nerve gas in the subways, the clock abruptly spins backward. ''It has been increasingly clear,'' Ms. Switzer told a Congressional hearing on children's mental health needs in the wake of the terrorist attacks, held in New York last week, ''that merely wanting the normalcy of our lives and our feelings before Sept. 11 is not enough to make it happen.'' Many parents, seeking to reassure their children, to provide a bulwark against fear and uncertainty, have had similar thoughts over the last few weeks.
Even a treatment as venerable as progesterone, a hormone vital to a healthy pregnancy, is divisive. Some doctors swear that it helps. Others argue that it does nothing but postpone an inevitable miscarriage. New research suggests that very high doses of progesterone may be effective in some cases, probably a result of the hormone's immunosuppressive effects. ''How many patients do we save from miscarriage with progesterone supplements?'' Dr. Alan B. Copperman, director of reproductive endocrinology and infertility at the Mount Sinai Medical Center, asked. ''Not that many. Do we do it routinely? Sure we do. It's a mostly harmless, inexpensive treatment, which a lot of patients go on. But it probably doesn't save that many pregnancies.'' Dr. Kutteh said that when he was a student 15 years ago ''there was no training on pregnancy loss.'' ''It's just one of those areas where there wasn't much known,'' he added. ''And there were not many experts, and there was not a consensus on what to do.''
Of the new conclusion, Energy Secretary Bill Richardson said in an interview, ''This is the first time that the government is acknowledging that people got cancer from radiation exposure in the plants.'' The finding is detailed in a draft report prepared by officials of the Energy Department and the White House with the cooperation of a dozen government agencies. President Clinton ordered the study in July, when the Energy Department concluded that some workers at plants that had supplied beryllium to the government for bomb-making had developed beryllium disease, an incurable lung ailment. The president asked then for a broad study that would look at the effects of radiation and chemical hazards from uranium, plutonium and other substances. Mr. Clinton also asked the group to develop a policy on compensation, but that work has not been completed. Legislation proposed by Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, a Pennsylvania Democrat whose constituents include some of the beryllium disease patients, calls for payments to an estimated 500 to 1,000 former workers who either have the illness  or are at high risk of developing it. Under that bill, total payments in the beryllium cases could range from $15 million to $30 million a year, officials said.
But in recent years, steganog raphy has arrived on the Internet in a big way, experts said, with free and easy-to-use programs to insert messages into music or picture files. Many programs also allow users to choose an encryption scheme to further hide the message, so even if the recipients know it is there, they have to decode it to read it. ''In the past two years, the number of steganography tools available over the Internet has doubled -- it's 140 and growing,'' Dr. Johnson said. Some of the newer ones, he said, prompt users at each step on how to proceed. Bruce Schneier, a founder of Counterpane, an Internet security company, likened steganography to what is known as a dead drop -- a message, money or papers left in a hiding place to be picked up by someone. ''The effect is that the sender can transmit a message without ever communicating directly with the receiver,'' Mr. Schneier wrote in a recent newsletter. ''There is no e-mail between them, no remote log-ins, no instant messages. All that exists is a picture posted in a public forum, and then downloaded by anyone sufficiently enticed by the subject (both third parties and the intended receiver of the secret message.)''
Does the new dtente represent a dangerous compromise or medical moderation? Some women's health advocates caution against rushing back to hormones. ''I would not argue with the idea that the Women's Health Initiative doesn't answer every last question we have about hormone therapy,'' said Amy Allina, program and policy director for the National Women's Health Network in Washington. ''I am concerned, though, that the medical community is resistant to accepting the implications of this research and worried that some women may be getting false reassurance.'' ''Many doctors have had a very hard time figuring out how the world looks now that they have these results,'' Ms. Allina said. ''So there's a tendency to fall back on the old ways, to find reasons why the findings shouldn't apply to their patients.'' Others see a sensible new equilibrium. ''Hormone therapy has lost its luster for the prevention of chronic diseases, but it will still be used for the treatment of hot flashes and other symptoms, and I think short-term use will become nearly as frequent as before,'' said Dr. JoAnn E. Manson, chief of preventive medicine at Harvard's Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston and a principal investigator of the Women's Health Inititative. ''I don't think the pendulum will swing back entirely, but I think it will be used more often than it had been after the first trial.''
Doctors sometimes dismiss stress-related complaints as ''all in the patient's head.'' In a sense, they are right. The brain, specifically the amygdala, detects the first signs of danger, as demonstrated in now-classic studies by Dr. Joseph LeDoux of New York University. Other brain areas evaluate the threat's importance, decide how to respond and remember when and where the danger occurred, increasing the chances of avoiding it next time. So it is not surprising that when the stress system is derailed, the brain is a target for damage. A decade of research has demonstrated that sustained stress and the resulting overproduction of cortisol can have chilling effects on the hippocampus, a horseshoe-shaped brain structure intimately involved in memory formation. Scientists say they believe that the hippocampus plays an active role in registering not only events, but also their context, an important task in the face of danger. In stressful situations, the hippocampus also helps turn off the stress response after the threat has subsided.
Defibrillators, like the one Vice President Dick Cheney has, are beeper-size devices that monitor the heartbeat and apply an electrical shock if the rhythm degenerates into something dangerous. Sudden arrhythmias are common in patients like Mr. Cheney who have suffered moderate or severe heart attacks, and the irregularities can cause sudden death. Defibrillators can clearly reduce these deaths, and it is estimated that millions of Americans could potentially qualify for the $30,000 devices. But the cardiology fellow who presented the case wondered how hard he should push for his patient to get one, given his age and mental state. It makes sense to implant a device in the chest of a 50-year-old with a good life who is providing to society, the fellow said, but what about a 70-year-old debilitated by heart failure and living in a nursing home? That patient might benefit the most, he added, but would also have the least to offer society in terms of productive years.
Patients are beginning to get the message. Last week, Carole Dengel carried her 2-year-old daughter, Corie, out of Hackensack University Medical Center, where she had taken her a week before when she fell into a diabetic coma. Ms. Dengel, who sometimes volunteers with a New Jersey ambulance service, said she never felt the need to take her daughter out of state. ''When I bring somebody here, I know they'll be taken care of,'' she said. Doctors have already got the message. In the last few years, Dr. Devinsky said, he has been courted by a handful of New Jersey hospital systems. He never saw a reason to split his time. ''But St. Barnabas said that they wanted to take the lead in this area,'' he explained, ''and they said they were going to commit the resources to prove it.'' About eight miles south of St. Barnabas, Dr. Michael Gruber, a prominent brain tumor specialist who practices at New York University, is doing much the same thing. In May, he started working one day a week at Overlook Hospital in Summit, where the brand-new Brain Tumor Center of New Jersey -- part of a $15 million neurosciences research center -- has been built around him by the hospital's parent, Atlantic Health System. The system also recruited one of Dr. Gruber's colleagues at New York University, Dr. Kim Nelson, a neurological specialist.
People who inherit common variants of two genes have 10 times the risk of developing congestive heart failure, a condition that afflicts five million Americans, researchers say. Congestive heart failure is a leading cause of death in the nation, but the researchers say their findings may help doctors identify drugs that are most likely to help patients and to find people at high risk early enough to arrest the disease. In a paper published today in The New England Journal of Medicine, researchers at the University of Cincinnati proposed that the gene variants might predispose people to the disease. The researchers looked at 159 patients with congestive heart failure, comparing them with 189 people who were similar in other respects, including race, but who did not have the disease. They discovered that their suspicions about the genes were correct. Other experts said the results were among the first soundings of a new era in medicine in which doctors identify an individual's genetic variations to help him avoid illness.
But he said the Acambis vaccine, while produced with more modern methods than the existing vaccine, would not be much safer because it used the same strain of virus. He added that its risks would be acceptable if there were a bioterror attack, but that in the absence of an attack, ''it's certainly likely that the adverse events will outweigh any risks from smallpox.'' Dr. Gordon's comments raise the question of whether the government should have considered the Japanese vaccine when it decided to build its stockpile. But government officials say they had to go with what had been proved to work. ''We had to build the stockpile based on proven efficacy and proven acceptability to the F.D.A.,'' said Dr. Philip Russell, special adviser on bioterrorism vaccines in the Department of Health and Human Services. Acambis declined to comment. Dr. Russell said that since the Japanese vaccine had been developed after smallpox was eradicated in Japan, ''there's no historical proof that it works.'' He also said the vaccine was made in an unusual type of cell culture that might not pass muster with the drug agency.
Dr. Goldfarb, who plans to phase his new practice, said that analyzing the results of the physical and helping patients develop priorities and goals formed the core of his philosophy. In addition to taking detailed medical histories, he said, he also emphasizes nutrition, exercise and what he called ''prophylactic medicine.'' Some critics contend that an emphasis on annual physical exams is misguided. Since 1989, the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, part of the Department of Health and Human Services, has issued a series of reports questioning the validity of annual check-ups. The reports warned that exams sometimes produced false alarms, subjecting healthy patients to unnecessary tests and discomfort. Dr. Goldfarb said he thought the annual check-up was a good idea. ''The value of the annual exam may be not be tangible in the sense of 'We're going to find it before you get it,''' he said, meaning discovering a problem before symptoms appear. ''But the relationship you as a doctor create with your patient is worth it on a variety of levels.''
''I have been given that precious second chance,'' she said. ''I was so blessed.'' SIX KILLERS: STROKE  Second of Six Articles Articles in the series have also covered heart disease and will cover:  CANCER -- At a crossroad of early detection and treatment, with science advancing in small steps and prevention crucial.  CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE -- New attention to a troubling disease and how to buy time.  DIABETES -- Pushing the limits of treatment and raising new questions of what patients can manage on their own.  ALZHEIMER'S -- Tracing the roots of a disease and trying to understand how and when to intervene. ABOUT THE SERIES -- They are the leading causes of illness and death in the United States today -- heart disease, cancer, stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes and Alzheimer's disease, in that order. And they have a lot in common. They are expensive -- together, they account for 25 percent of the nation's annual health care expenditures, said Jonathan Skinner, a health economist at Dartmouth College.
The question was why. It could be, as some cardiologists argued, that Vioxx caused heart attacks. Or it could be, as Merck argued, that Vioxx was neutral, while naproxen actually reduced the likelihood of a heart attack. In April 2002, at the request of the Food and Drug Administration, Merck added the study's finding about heart attack risk to the drug's label. Several other studies followed. One looked at a million Medicaid patients; another at 1.4 million patients enrolled in Kaiser Permanente's health care plans; another at more than 50,000 Medicare patients. Each found more heart attacks and strokes with Vioxx, but medical experts differed over how to interpret the data. Dr. Eric Topol, a cardiologist at the Cleveland Clinic, writing in medical journals, argued vehemently that Vioxx and others in its class were not worth taking. He said they had ''marginal efficiency, heightened risk, and excessive cost'' compared with drugs like aspirin.
Dr. Michael Osterholm, who directs the Center for Infectious Disease Research at the University of Minnesota, was on a committee at Johns Hopkins that recommended Cipro because, he said, ''as a fluoroquinoline, it was the drug we have the best data for.'' But, like Dr. Fauci, he expected that other drugs in the class could be about equally effective. The Johns Hopkins group wrote in its report that still other antibiotics were effective against anthrax bacteria in the laboratory, including ''chloramphenicol, erythromycin, clindamycin, extended-spectrum penicillins, macrolides, aminoglycosides, vancomycin hydrochloride, cefazolin and other first-generation cephalosporins.'' Dr. Osterholm worried, however, about encouraging the public to seek out the other drugs. ''If we talk about this in public, we'll just see runs on other antibiotics,'' he said. ''You just give the public the sense that, 'Hey, if I can't get Cipro I'll get doxy, and if I can't get doxy, I'll get penicillin.' ''
SCIENCE has always fascinated me. As a child in Tibet, I was keenly curious about how things worked. When I got a toy I would play with it a bit, then take it apart to see how it was put together. As I became older, I applied the same scrutiny to a movie projector and an antique automobile. At one point I became particularly intrigued by an old telescope, with which I would study the heavens. One night while looking at the moon I realized that there were shadows on its surface. I corralled my two main tutors to show them, because this was contrary to the ancient version of cosmology I had been taught, which held that the moon was a heavenly body that emitted its own light. But through my telescope the moon was clearly just a barren rock, pocked with craters. If the author of that fourth-century treatise were writing today, I'm sure he would write the chapter on cosmology differently.
Moreover, the low-volume doctors were not accumulating enough data to show if they were good. So he simply assumed they were not, and restricted them to other radiology tasks, like CAT scans. How did they feel? Rather relieved, it turns out. Dr. John A. Siebert, for one, says mammography was monotonous, particularly since he might screen 200 healthy women before finding one cancer. An instructor once told him to pretend that each X-ray was his mother's, but that trick, he says, went only so far. ''It's sort of tedious,'' he says. ''You have to sort of slap yourself to look at them.'' Others say they had trouble mustering -- and holding onto -- the intense yet relaxed concentration needed to find the more subtle tumors, what some of the Denver doctors call ''the Zen zone.'' ''It was hard for me to get in the groove,'' Dr. John W. Grudis says.
''There are always people looking for a new recreational stimulant, and this can give you a major rush,'' Mr. Merritt said of DHEA. John Maglio, a personal trainer at Gold's Gym in downtown Brooklyn, said he had taken 150 milligrams of DHEA a day, with no negative side effects. But he would not recommend it to women, he said. Without new controls on alternative medicines, doctors and fitness trainers said, more and more people will be hurt by them. ''Health food stores do billions of dollars of business based on rumor and hope,'' said Dr. Millman, referring to DHEA. ''No one has proven that it is an aphrodisiac. No one has shown that it improves testosterone levels. No one has shown that it increases muscle mass. But people take it because it is rumored to have those effects.''
Two of Pfizer's most vocal critics, Dr. Joshua Sharfstein, a pediatrician at Boston Medical Center, and Dr. Sidney Wolfe of Public Citizen, the consumer group, have complained about Pfizer's Zithromax campaign to Donna E. Shalala, the secretary of health and human services. The two doctors had obtained an internal Pfizer document that listed a toll-free phone number for pediatricians to call if they wondered whether to prescribe Zithromax to children. When they called, they heard recorded advice from Dr. Russell Steele, vice chairman of pediatrics at Louisiana State University's school of medicine. He said, among other things, that most children's ear infections would be cured with a drug like Zithromax. The Pfizer internal document said the purpose of the recorded advice was to ''counter'' recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that were published in early 1999. Those guidelines said other antibiotics were more effective than Zithromax at curing children's ear infections.
Dr. Marburger said he was unconvinced by the report's description of those incidents. ''I don't think it makes the case for the sweeping accusations that it makes,'' he said. But Dr. Sidney Drell, an emeritus professor of physics at Stanford and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution who was not a signatory to the statement, said the overall findings rang true to him. ''I am concerned that the scientific advice coming into this administration seems to me very narrow,'' said Dr. Drell, who has advised the government on issues of national security for some 40 years and has served in Democratic and Republican administrations, including those of Presidents Nixon and Lyndon B. Johnson. ''The input from individuals whose views are not in the main line of their policy don't seem to be sought or welcomed,'' he said.
The program was put together by Jos E. Serrano, the Bronx representative who helped arrange $2.3 million in federal financing last year, and $2.6 million this year, from the Departments of Defense, State and Education. Columbia officials said they had also begun to think about how to raise private money to help support the program, although they could not predict how many students would participate once it was was fully under way. Mr. Serrano said he hoped that with proper training, students like those at Hostos could begin to give American foreign policy a new face. ''When I got to Congress in 1990, I began to see that a lot of my questions about foreign policy did not get satisfactory answers,'' he said yesterday. ''It dawned on me that the people who make foreign policy are good people, but there is a lack of females and minorities and Hispanics. So it came to me that maybe, just maybe, we could change some of that.''
Symptoms include nausea and vomiting, muscle weakness, headache and disorientation, as well as bloating and puffiness in the face and fingers. In the last year or so, a dozen marathon runners in this country were known or suspected of having hyponatremia, said Dr. William Roberts, a spokesman for the American College of Sports Medicine, the professional organization of sports physicians. One victim was a 43-year-old woman who died after running the Chicago Marathon last fall. Doctors are looking for hyponatremia more now than ever before, but they say that increased vigilance does not fully explain the increased diagnoses. Another reason may be that many recreational athletes are drinking too much water. ''We've done a good job of educating people on proper rehydration, but some people have taken that to the nth degree, thinking that the more you drink, the better,'' Dr. Sawka said. Doctors say that most of the marathon runners with hyponatremia were relatively inexperienced athletes who entered races to raise money for charity. ''They're the ones who are in the race for a long time, and there's some speculation that they're drinking too much water during the race,'' Dr. Roberts said.
One of the most closely watched weight-loss treatments in late-stage clinical trials is Acomplia, made by Sanofi-Aventis, based in Paris. It works by blocking the same pleasure receptor in the brain that responds to the effects of marijuana. Test patients who took the drug for two years lost an average of 16 pounds, the company said. Sanofi-Aventis is expected to seek Food and Drug Administration approval for Acomplia by this summer. Other approaches include a weight-loss nasal spray that a biotechnology company, Nastech Pharmaceutical, is testing in partnership with Merck. The spray contains a synthetic version of a human protein that signals a person's brain to stop eating when food reaches the intestines. ''Cures'' for fat, of course, have long been staples of the herbal supplement and over-the-counter medicine businesses, as well as the diet industry. Amphetamines were widely used as diet pills in the 1950's and 1960's, before physicians recognized their addictive effects. More recently, amphetamine-like substances have been sold as over-the-counter treatments.
Last year, a 10-month-old baby boy died in the hospital after a minor operation went wrong. The baby's parents, an American couple, had two other children and probably could have had another if they wished; neither parent was infertile, and both were healthy and in their 30's. But they did not want another child. They wanted this child. And before long, they began to believe that the longing they felt was telling them something quite specific -- that their dead baby's genes were crying out, as a ghost might, to express themselves again in this world. The idea preoccupied them that their little son's genotype deserved another chance, that it had disappeared by mistake and could be brought back by intention. Now if all this had happened, say, five years ago, their conviction might have soon faded away. The couple might have told their friends or family about this secret dream of resurrecting their baby's genes, and been talked out of it, or comforted in some other way. But it happened last year -- four years into the cloning revolution sparked by Dolly the sheep, at a moment when optimism about the miracles of biotech was running high and when it was not at all hard to find other people who shared a kind of metaphysical faith in the power of genes. One such group, a science-loving, alien-fixated religious movement called the Ralians, for whom cloning is a central tenet, was particularly eager to put its faith into action. Last June, the grieving couple and the Ralians found one another (on the Internet, of course) with results that could -- and should -- reopen the whole debate over whether human beings ought ever to be cloned, and for what purpose.
A drug once viewed as a possible magic bullet against obesity was rejected yesterday by a federal advisory panel because of worries that it causes neurological and psychiatric problems and increases the risk of suicide. Although the drug, rimonabant, is already marketed in 37 countries, it is now unlikely that the Food and Drug Administration will approve its sale in the United States without additional safety data. The advisory panel voted unanimously, 14 to 0, against recommending the drug, saying there was inadequate evidence of its safety. The F.D.A. is not required to follow the advice of such panels, but it typically does. The panel's vote was a blow to Sanofi-Aventis, the French company that makes the drug, which is sold in many countries under the brand name Acomplia. As the advisory committee finished voting, the company's stock, which trades in this country as American depositary receipts, closed at $43.07, down $1.31 or 2.95 percent. It fell another $1.02 in after-hours trading.
And there are good, even philosophically sound, reasons for this. ''It is an almost universal conviction that abortion becomes steadily more problematic morally as a fetus develops toward infanthood,'' writes the legal scholar Ronald Dworkin, ''as the difference between pregnancy and infancy becomes more a matter of the baby's location than of its development.'' If you accept Dworkin's general argument that fetal life is a rapidly progressing continuum and that the more babylike an aborted fetus, the greater the insult to the sanctity of human life, then even in the first trimester earlier abortion is more acceptable. So, for example, while 88 percent of abortions are performed in the first trimester, 34 percent of those now occur between 9 and 12 weeks, by which time the developing life is considered a fetus, not an embryo. If medical abortions -- or even manual vacuum aspirations -- become more common, then many of those abortions could happen in the three- to eight-week range instead.
Those symptoms, he noted, involve the prefrontal cortex, a brain area not highly developed in animals. So, he asked, ''How do you model it in an animal?'' In one popular test, mice are placed in a pool of water and monitored to see how long they swim before giving up. If they are treated with an antidepressant, they swim longer. Another experiment involves hanging mice by their tails; those given antidepressants struggle longer before giving up. In a third test, mice are taught to avoid an electrical shock by pushing a lever. When the lever is inactivated, the mice continue to push it anyway, even though they still get shocked. Mice under the influence of antidepressants keep pushing it longer. But Dr. Robert R. Ruffolo, president of research and development at Wyeth, said it was a mistake to assume that an animal test can reflect human behavior. ''The first thing we do -- and this is tough -- is we don't try to relate the behavior in an animal to a human behavior,'' he said. Animals like mice, he added, ''don't feel happy or sad.''
The experiment is an effort by Medicare to address a fundamental concern about the current payment system. Hospitals are not paid more when they help keep a heart-failure patient from coming back to the hospital, for example. The hospitals participating in this experiment are being measured on whether they give patients clear instructions when they leave on how best to stay healthy. Medicare officials say they are encouraged by the program's results so far in supporting a move to a system that ties payments more closely to quality care. ''What we see is a good trend here,'' Mr. Kuhn said. Others agree that the experiment supports the idea of rewarding good care. ''I think it offers a lot of encouragement for the potential of linking even small amounts of pay to the reliability of care,'' said Dr. Donald M. Berwick, the president and chief executive of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement, a nonprofit group based in Cambridge, Mass.
On an airplane traveling to the meeting, Dr. Haskell pulled out his data and showed them to Dr. Fox. ''We drew a line through the points and I said, 'Gee, if you extrapolate that out it looks like at age 20, the heart rate maximum is 200 and at age 40 it's 180 and at age 60 it's 160,'' Dr. Haskell said. At that point, Dr. Fox suggested a formula: maximum heart rate equals 220 minus age. But, exercise physiologists said, these data, like virtually all exercise data, had limitations. They relied on volunteers who most likely were not representative of the general population. ''It's whoever came in the door,'' Dr. Kirkendall said. In addition, he and others said, gauging maximum heart rates for people who are not used to exercising is often difficult because many prematurely stop the test. As the treadmill hills get steeper, people who are not used to exercise will notice that their calves are aching. ''They will say they can't go any further,'' Dr. Kirkendall said.
The most important thing for this position is the medical background. It will come down to him to say, ''Is this drug ready to go to the public?''; to know the medical use of those devices, those drugs, firsthand; the risk-benefit ratio that you learn about in medical school; knowing that medicines can be life-saving but they can also be harmful. Those really have to weigh heavily on the person making those decisions. Q. How will Dr. McClellan's strength in economics and health policy help him? A. The agency in the past has operated very much in isolation, but Secretary Thompson [Tommy G. Thompson, secretary of health and human services] has expressed interest in having the agency be more a member of the team that addresses the needs of the health of the public. The prescription drug benefit discussions -- the commissioner will probably not play a role in those decisions, but by being a spokesperson for the agency, it will help inform the economic decisions that have to take place. And vice versa. If the agency is going to review a drug that will be covered by Medicare, it's going to be exposed to elderly patients in large numbers very quickly, and that has to be part of the safety plan.
But my friends and I talk about the risk a lot. We can get really philosophical that more of us are going to die from heart disease, but the truth is, we still worry, and all of us are going to wonder if we made the  right decision if we get breast cancer. The way I've dealt with it is to step back and look at the whole picture. I've concluded that my quality of life is so good I'm not willing to give that up for what may be in the future. Instead, I try to get mammograms regularly, do monthly self-examination -- and stay on top of the literature. Correction:  September 8, 2000, Friday  Credits in Science Times on Tuesday for two pictures of women with an article about views of hormone replacement therapy misspelled the surname of a photographer. He is Michael Geissinger, not Guissinger. In addition, two credits with the article were reversed. The picture of Valerina Quintana was by Norma Jean Gargasz; the one of Ann Landy was by Mr. Geissinger.
Internet searching was at the forefront of the technologies that Microsoft displayed on Tuesday at an event intended to showcase the company's research prowess. Despite a lack of visible progress in catching up with Google, the leader in Internet search engines, Microsoft says it still believes that it will eventually turn the tables by improving the quality of its search results and by changing the way computer users search. It is all part of an arms race for search supremacy that has engaged top researchers at both companies. During a morning session for more than 300 visitors at the Microsoft Conference Center, Lili Cheng, a user-interface designer for the Windows Vista operating system, showed off a new service called Mix that will allow Web surfers to organize search results and easily share them. Ms. Cheng, a Microsoft researcher trained as an architect, has moved back and forth between research and product development positions at the company. She said Mix would be released in six to nine months.
Doctors and hospitals across the country are scrambling to satisfy the booming demand for surgery that shrinks the stomachs of severely obese people. Dozens of hospitals are adding special operating suites for the procedure, called bariatric surgery, which attracted wide notice after public figures like Al Roker of ''Today'' on NBC, Sharon Osbourne of ''The Osbournes'' on MTV and Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Manhattan Democrat, had it done. Some bariatric surgeons are fully scheduled 12 months in advance, and hundreds of doctors have jumped into the field recently and started to advertise their availability. Bariatric procedures -- meant for obese people who are at extremely high risk of severe health problems, as defined by a National Institutes of Health consensus -- surged more than 40 percent last year, to 80,000. This year, the number is expected to climb to 120,000, according to Frost &amp; Sullivan, a consulting firm. Spending on bariatrics is approaching $3 billion a year, at an average cost of $25,000 for each procedure.
Dr. Goodall, 66, her trademark ponytail mostly gray, visits Gombe briefly these days. Mostly she is on the road, lecturing and raising money to operate the programs and building an endowment for the Jane Goodall Institute. She has engagements scheduled through 2004, and has spent no more than three weeks in one place for the last 14 years. In New York this month, toward the end of an American tour, she talked about her advocacy for what she calls the animal nation. Q.  Why have you transferred your energies  from animal research to activism? A.  I feel a desperation to make people see what we are doing to the environment, what a mess we are making of our world. At this point, the more people I reach, the more I  accomplish. It is exhausting, the hotels,  suitcases and airplanes, and I miss Gombe and my wonderful years in the forest. But if I were to go back to that, I wouldn't feel I was doing what I should be doing.
And so, he said, when academic researchers inquired about getting F.D.A. approval for their studies with human subjects, ''we almost discouraged them'' from applying. But the time, expense and trouble it would take for academics to submit their research proposals and for the F.D.A. to review them are no excuse to let them slip by, said Dr. Spilker of the pharmaceutical manufacturers group. ''You have to consider benefit-risk issues,'' he said. ''The risk is far too great. That's why we have standards.'' If someone had asked him about agreeing to inhale a gram of hexamethonium in a study that had not been approved by the F.D.A., Dr. Spilker said, he would have told them to refuse. ''I would never want anyone to go into a study like that, never.''
The race to decipher the human genome  has been, some say, a race to the starting line, not an end in itself. The contestants will have compiled, in one scientist's analogy, a genetic dictionary filled with letters and words, most of which have not  yet been given any meanings. Identifying what proteins the genes produce and how those proteins generate their effects in the body will be far harder than simply deciphering the genome. Eminent biologists describe it as a quest that will occupy their discipline for at least the next 50 years, if not the next century.
''Who's going to come and get me, and for what?'' Dr. Wenner asked. ''I'm listening to these people and evaluating their complaints, and I've got three file drawers with their charts.'' Three states outside the Ninth Circuit -- Colorado, Maine and Maryland -- have some form of medical marijuana law. Although the ruling is not strictly binding outside the Ninth Circuit, advocates for medical marijuana predict that it will strongly influence authorities elsewhere, especially given the Supreme Court decision to let it stand. ''Frankly, lawyers are ready to pounce on the government as soon as they start harassing doctors anywhere outside the Ninth Circuit,'' said Daniel Abrahamson, a lawyer for the plaintiffs who is legal affairs director of the Drug Policy Alliance. Federal officials have promised to continue enforcing the drug laws, reiterating their view that Marinol, an oral prescription drug that includes a form of THC, the psychoactive component of marijuana, precludes the need for using marijuana itself as a medication.
Still, Dr. West said it might be possible one day to produce human babies through parthenogenesis.  Male parthenotes could be created, too, he said, by replacing the DNA in an egg with the DNA from two of a male's sperm cells. But male and female parthenotes have shown differences, said Dr. Jose Cibelli, vice president for research at Advanced Cell Technology. Stem cells derived from male par thenotes tend to turn into muscle cells, while stem cells from female parthenotes turned more often into brain and nerve cells, he said. Dr. West said that if this process could be used to produce live offspring it would open up vast new reproductive possibilities. A woman could give birth by herself. Or two men may be able to each contribute one sperm to have a baby together.
One bright spot of the research so far is that the SARS virus grows well in cultures of cells derived from monkey kidneys. That makes studying the virus easier. Having an animal that becomes infected by the virus would also be useful for testing drugs and vaccines, so federal researchers are trying to determine whether they can infect animals like mice or monkeys. Some experts say that is not likely because coronaviruses tend to infect only one species. The rat coronavirus does not even infect mice, said Dr. Kathryn V. Holmes of the University of Colorado, an authority on the viruses. Moreover, the freshly deciphered genetic sequence of the SARS virus shows that it is not very similar to other known coronaviruses. As for treatments, doctors in Hong Kong, a center of the outbreak, reported last week in the The Lancet that the combination of steroids and the antiviral drug ribavirin appeared to help. But the Army biodefense lab found in its tests that ribavirin did not inhibit the replication of the SARS virus grown in the laboratory. And a spate of new deaths over the weekend in Hong Kong has dimmed enthusiasm for the treatment even there.
While it is not uncommon for a few cancer cells to develop when men are in their 20's or 30's, these cells typically divide so slowly that tumors are rare in men younger than 50. After that, prostate cancer becomes increasingly common: men in their 60's and 70's have a 1-in-6 chance of being diagnosed with prostate cancer; a man living to 100 is almost certain to develop it. But again, given prostate cancer's languid growth, most older men will die of other causes, like heart disease or stroke. Hence the adage that most prostate cancer patients die with their disease rather than from it. Moreover, the P.S.A. test cannot pinpoint those faster growing tumors for which early treatment might make a difference. Still, the P.S.A. continues to have strong advocates, not the least of whom are patients who have had surgery and never experienced a recurrence. They are usually convinced that P.S.A. testing has prolonged their lives, if not saved them. Indeed, in some cases the test may have done just that.
Yet a 1997 study, published in Cancer, the journal of the American Cancer Society, found that African-American women treated for breast cancer at United States military hospitals, where equal medical access is mandated, had a 41 percent greater risk of death than their white counterparts receiving the same care. According to Dr. Barbara E. Wojcik, an Army statistician and co-author of the study, early screening may play a role. In a small follow-up study, she found that, compared with whites and Hispanics, a smaller percentage of the black women had received diagnoses of breast cancer through mammography. Among those whose breast cancers were detected by mammograms, there were no differences in survival rates. Diet and body weight may also play a role. Most of the women in the military study were civilian spouses, not subject to the Army's physical requirements. On average, Dr. Brawley said, black women are heavier and have denser breast tissue than whites, increasing both their chances of breast cancer and the difficulty of detecting it on a mammogram. Overweight white women also appear to have a higher incidence of breast cancer than white women of normal weight.
Dr. Lipton added that, as a computer scientist, he appreciated the proof that the code could not be broken. ''Michael's big contribution has been the proof that the system actually works,'' he said. ''It's one of those things that sounds obvious but the mathematics is quite hard.'' Of course, what is good for those who want privacy may not be good for law enforcement. Even the cryptography systems sold today are a problem for the F.B.I. ''Uncrackable encryption allows drug lords, terrorists and even violent gangs to communicate about their criminal intentions without fear of outside intrusion,'' the F.B.I. director, Louis J. Freeh, told the Senate in 1998, according to a transcript from the Federal Document Clearing House. ''This type of encryption also allows these same people to maintain electronically stored evidence of their crimes beyond the reach of law enforcement.'' Still, some computer experts said that while it might be interesting in theory to have a provably unbreakable code, the practical importance of Dr. Rabin's code may be minimal.
Dr. Michael West, chief executive of Advanced Cell Technology, would not comment when asked if the company had tried this in humans. He also would not discuss the company's work in detail, saying he did not want to jeopardize an upcoming publication in a scientific journal. The work takes advantage of a phenomenon known as parthenogenesis. It is known that some species of flowers, insects, lizards and snakes can reproduce asexually, with the female's egg growing into a baby without being fertilized by a male.. Parthenogenesis, which is from the Greek for virgin birth, does not occur naturally in mammals. But for decades scientists have known how to trick the eggs of mice, rabbits and other mammals into developing as if they had been fertilized by subjecting the eggs to various chemicals or to temperature changes, needle pricks or electrical shocks. The resulting embryos are called parthenotes. It has not been reported that this has ever been done with human eggs, however, and it would raise ethical questions.
No woman need panic over these findings. The scientific directors of the study stress that the drugs increased a woman's risk of contracting breast cancer -- the finding of most concern -- by less than a tenth of a percent per year, a tiny amount. But if the drugs are taken by millions of women over several years, the risk translates into tens of thousands of cases of breast cancer or cardiovascular disease, a clear public health concern. The federal study has reached no judgment yet on the pluses and minuses of taking estrogen alone, the course of therapy for eight million American women who have had hysterectomies. That portion of the trial will continue. The emerging medical consensus seems to be that long-term use of the estrogen-progestin therapy is questionable, particularly for purposes where alternative drugs are available, such as the prevention of osteoporosis and hip fractures. But short-term use to ease the symptoms of menopause, a purpose not tested in the aborted federal study, may well remain justified. That would return the combination drug to the narrow purpose it originally had -- before the marketing juggernaut and professional word of mouth, buttressed by scientific studies that are now shown to be wrong, propelled it to superstar status.
For most of the 20th century, doctors thought of blood vessels as a simple network of pipes -- a plumbing system that could become clogged by the accumulation of cholesterol. ''It was really a hydraulic, nonbiological view,'' said Dr. Peter Libby, chief of cardiovascular medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital. According to this view, if cholesterol deposits grew too large, there would not be enough room left for blood to flow, and the patient would begin to feel chest pains. If a coronary artery became entirely plugged, the person would suffer a heart attack. But severe blockages, it turns out, cause at most three out of 10 heart attacks. The rest occur in people whose blood is flowing freely, through arteries narrowed by less than half their capacity. These lesser blockages are usually found in people who die of heart attacks relatively young, in their 40's or 50's. For these deaths, doctors needed a new explanation.
If muscles are stronger, Dr. Franklin said, a person's heart rate and blood pressure response will be lower, creating less demand on the heart when something is lifted. ''It's not how heavy the load is,'' he said.  ''It's how heavy relative to how strong the muscles are that results in the rise in heart rate and blood pressure.'' The panel concluded that weight training did not cause complications in healthy adults or people with minor damage to their hearts. But the results were unclear for moderate or high-risk heart patients. For instance, the researchers did not recommend lifting weights if patients had unstable angina, uncontrolled high blood pressure, uncontrolled arrhythmia, or were suffering from heart failure. They also recommended that cardiac patients with low to moderate risks first participate in aerobic exercise programs for at least two to four weeks. At 84, Ken Bateman of Birmingham, Mich., participates in the cardiac rehabilitation program that Dr. Franklin directs at Beaumont Hospital. ''You have to keep the body functioning to keep the heart functioning,'' said Mr. Bateman, who had a heart attack 14 years ago.
The news that thousands of women in a national study were suddenly being taken off hormone replacement therapy ushered in a day of reckoning for the millions of other women who take hormones. They all had the same simple but vexing question: Should I quit, too? As their doctors scrambled for answers, a consensus of sorts seemed to emerge, in which hormone users were divided into two categories: women who had taken them only a year or two to treat hot flashes and other temporary symptoms of menopause and those who had taken them for years. In the short-term, doctors said, hormone replacement therapy still seems safe. But it does not look as promising as it once did for a woman's long-term health. ''If a woman has only been taking hormones for a year or two to treat hot flashes,'' said Dr. Lori Mosca, director of preventive cardiology at New York Presbyterian Hospital, ''it's probably safe for her to go on. But if she's been on hormones for 10 years, it's time to stop.''
''That just came unexpectedly,'' Dr. Richmond said, ''and we are still not sure of all the factors that contributed to it.'' A disappointment among the data is that while infant mortality has continued to decline, and is almost at the goal, there remains a great disparity between the rate for whites and for blacks. The death rate among black infants is about twice that for whites, Dr. Richmond said. ''and has been that way for decades.'' Dr. Satcher said other health disparities among ethnic groups were also troubling. Hispanics are twice as likely as whites to be diabetic and African-Americans have a disproportionately high death rate from diabetes. African-Americans are also much more likely than whites to be hospitalized or die from asthma. Dr. Satcher also noted that some of the most important challenges were in diet and fitness. For example, he said, the percentage of overweight Americans was about 26 in the mid-1970's. The Government established a goal of 20 percent of the population for the year 2000, and many people believed that it might be achieved as more Americans appeared to become interested in nutrition and fitness over the past 15 years. But instead, the number of people overweight rose to 35 percent by 1995, the latest year for which data was given in the report.
Two Seoul newspapers reported that angry viewers had posted photos of family members of the show's producers on the Internet, threatening to kill them. To many, the backlash reflects a growing tendency in the country to invoke nationalistic sentiments to resist outside scrutiny. On Saturday, President Roh Moo Hyun posted a statement on his Web site saying that ''the public's response went too far.'' But hours after his message, about 50 people started a candlelight vigil in front of the MBC studios. ''I want to stand up and walk again,'' Kang Won Rae, a pop singer who has been in a wheelchair since a car accident. ''Dr. Hwang is the biggest hope for us disabled people.'' He said Dr. Hwang ''is being victimized excessively for his minor ethical breaches in the past.'' Some critical voices have been heard, often on the left, saying South Korea had invited problems by encouraging Dr. Hwang's headlong dash into stem cell research while hardly taking note of the ethical debates over the research in countries like the United States.
Nevertheless, Dr. Caldwell and other Lymerix supporters believe even a little protection now is better than none at all. None of the vaccine's inconveniences -- three injections over the course of a year, sore arms after the shots, less than complete immunity and uncertainty over how long the immunization lasts -- puts off patients as much as the cost, which varies widely. SmithKline charges $49 a dose. But some doctors are billing up to $100, to cover office time and counseling. Other doctors say they are not being properly reimbursed by health insurance companies, so they write prescriptions for Lymerix that the patient must fill at a pharmacy (which charges what it likes) and then return to the doctor's office to take the medication. Many doctors said they had decided to inoculate themselves and their families -- some on an accelerated schedule, despite the F.D.A's recommendations. Dr. Vijay K. Sikand of East Lyme, Conn., has vaccinated himself and his wife and enrolled his children in a study of Lymerix. (There are 4,000 children between 4 and 18 in the trial, and Dr. Sikand said the vaccine appears to be more effective for them than for adults.)
The new study on the falling breast cancer rates was reported Thursday at a breast cancer conference in San Antonio. The investigators, led by Donald A. Berry, a statistician at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, calculated that there were 14,000 fewer diagnoses of breast cancer when women stopped taking the drugs after July 2002. Prescriptions for Prempro, the most popular of the drugs, fell by half. A similar report, by Christina Clarke and colleagues at the Northern California Cancer Center, which looked at California data, found that the trend continued into 2004. Wyeth, the maker of Prempro, said in a statement yesterday that ''the potential impact of hormone therapy on breast cancer has long been warned in product labels.'' But the new data analysis, the company said, does not prove cause and effects. There were other possible reasons for the decline, Wyeth added. For now, the company said, ''caution and further examination over a longer period of time is advised before these data can be fully understood.''
For some people, cloning just seems like a chance to have a baby with some kind of genetic connection -- even if it's only to one parent, even if the connection is uncomfortably close, even if they're a little vague on what a clone is. Desiree Boen, one of the dozens of infertile people who have posted messages to the Human Cloning Foundation Web site seeking help, said she was ''really, really interested'' in trying to clone a baby. Boen, a 25-year-old teacher's aide and former nurse from Orlando, Fla., has two children, 9 and 6, but because of a hysterectomy she underwent a year ago, she can't have any more with her new husband. Unlike many infertile people intrigued by cloning, Boen tried to adopt -- but it was a private adoption, and ''the mom seemed so flaky and unsure that I backed out of it.'' She said she would consider having a baby with the help of a surrogate mother, ''except that you hear such bad stories about them changing their minds and keeping their babies.'' And because she lacks ovaries, Boen would need donor eggs as well. ''I have a niece who's 19, and she offered one of her eggs,'' she said in a phone conversation. ''But you know it gets pretty complicated when it's inside the family.'' When I asked if she would prefer to clone one of her cells or her husband's, Boen was puzzled, then admitted she thought ''you could use both.'' But after a moment, she said, ''Oh, I'd take my husband's, I guess.'' She said her husband was a great guy and she'd like him to have a boy just like him -- one whom he could enjoy ''in the cutesy phase.''
''We're not anywhere near the level of this happening in humans, and there are many roadblocks,'' Dr. Grabel said. ''But there are some models of the system that look very promising, and we're just at the very beginning. This is going to be far beyond what we were able to do before.'' Like other scientists pushing for such research, Dr. Grabel said she was thankful for the ''extremely supportive political climate'' in the state and said she expected other researchers to take notice. ''There is no question that more money is going to translate into more research, and we will be in an excellent position to get more dollars from the federal government if the funds ever become available,'' she said. While the financing is widely praised in scientific circles and many advocates view it as a potential boon for local economies, some caution that financial support from states alone could result in a patchwork and haphazard approach to the research.
Hospitals must meet federal standards as a condition of getting Medicare money, which accounts for about 40 percent of hospital revenue, on the average. Using this lever, the federal government sets detailed standards covering every aspect of hospital activity, from sanitation to fire safety to infection control. President Clinton's proposals, or something similar, seem likely to become reality for four reasons. The issue has great appeal to consumers, and this is an election year. The government already has the power to do much of what Mr. Clinton wants. Congress is eager to take action. And lawmakers have a convenient vehicle, the patients' bill of rights, now pending before a conference committee of House and Senate negotiators. White House documents say the Food and Drug Administration will develop standards to prevent errors caused by drug names that sound alike and packages that look alike. In addition, new labeling standards will require drug makers to highlight dangerous drug interactions and common dosage errors.
''Eventually,'' Dr. Lehman said, ''maybe we will find out that women with dense breasts will also do better with an M.R. screening. But we don't have that evidence now, and we don't recommend it.'' THE CONSUMER
After the bite, she began to feel tired and achy and was treated with a 28-day course of antibiotics. Still feeling ill, she was referred to a well-known specialist in Lyme disease, Dr. Allen C. Steere of Boston, who told her she did not need more antibiotics and would improve on her own, she said. Instead, she said: ''I began to be in constant leg and back pain. I had an irregular heartbeat, memory problems. My nerves would jolt as if I were getting electric shocks.'' Mrs. Goodman's experience is at the center of a bitter medical debate over Lyme disease that has been simmering for years, but that has now erupted in anger and increasingly vocal and formal accusations. On one side is Mrs. Goodman's former doctor, Dr. Steere, who first identified Lyme disease in the United States 25 years ago in a cluster of patients in Lyme, Conn. Dr. Steere, along with a majority of mainstream doctors, say most cases of Lyme disease can be successfully treated with 30 to 60 days of antibiotics, which they say kills the Lyme infection.
Besides, though cloned animals can be normal and healthy-appearing -- some cloned mice and cattle even seem ''improved,'' in the sense that they appear to age more slowly -- what's normal in a barnyard animal isn't all that high a standard. ''The fact that you can get a sheep or a mouse that looks normal,'' said Stuart Newman, a developmental biologist at New York Medical College, ''doesn't mean that some subtle things haven't gone wrong in brain development that you wouldn't necessarily notice in a sheep, but you would in a human. Yes, you can clone a mouse -- but can you take him to the opera?'' Cloned humans might show higher rates of cancer or other diseases, but we'd only find out by cloning them and waiting to see if disaster strikes. None of this means, however, that cloning services won't someday be marketed to desperate people -- or even that human cloning isn't going on somewhere right now. ''It's relatively easy to set up a lab and find someone competent to carry out the procedures,'' warned Roger Gosden, an infertility researcher at McGill University. ''Regrettably, we will probably wake up one day to the news that someone, somewhere, has used somatic-nuclear-transfer technology to produce a human clone.''
The group, the Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine, issued its advice last week as part of a report on the recommended dietary allowances for nutrients like carbohydrates, proteins and fats, as well as for fiber, fatty acids and cholesterol. They wrote that they knew the number of calories that people burned in a day and they knew how many calories would be consumed if people followed their dietary advice. Sedentary people, they worried, would gain weight. That led them to conclude that people must do the exercise equivalent of an hour of brisk walking each day. The group wrote that ''30 minutes of regular activity is insufficient to maintain body weight in adults in the recommended body mass index range.'' So, it concluded, ''to prevent weight gain as well as to accrue additional weight-independent health benefits of physical activity, 60 minutes of moderate intensity physical activity (e.g. walking/jogging at 4 to 5 miles per hour) is recommended in addition to the activities required by a sedentary lifestyle.''
Testing officials said they were able to confirm the cheating by noting that the scores on certain questions had risen significantly the longer the question was in circulation. Dr. Beere reported the results of the investigation to deans at more than 1,000 graduate schools in a letter mailed late last week. Its contents were first described yesterday in an online edition of The Chronicle of Higher Education. In the letter, Dr. Beere, who is also the associate provost for graduate studies and outreach at Northern Kentucky University, said the board would work to ''restore the confidence and trust that you have in the scores from applicants in the affected regions.'' She also reminded her colleagues to view the scores of any applicant in the context of the entire application.
Others say the same. ''People think that the early detection of cancer is absolutely and unequivocally a good thing,'' said Dr. Robert J. Stanley, the head of the radiology department at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. But even when a test detects cancer, the discovery may not be lifesaving. For example, Dr. Stanley said, 60 percent to 100 percent of thyroid glands in people over 60 have cells in them that a pathologist would call cancer. But, he said, fewer than 1 percent of older people ever develop symptoms of thyroid cancer. ''I believe in screening,'' said Dr. Andrew Wolf, associate professor of general internal medicine at the University of Virginia, who has studied what people understand about screening. ''But I think physicians as well as the public tend to overblow the risks of cancer. And, more important, we overblow the risk reduction conferred by screening.'' Dr. Wolf said that he offered women Pap tests and, for those over 50, mammograms. He also offers colon cancer screening tests to men and women over 50. But he said: ''I don't get bent out of shape when people refuse. We can operate on the margins by offering these cancer screens, but let's be honest about the expected impact.''
Dr. Sean Tunis, who directs the coverage and analysis group for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, a federal agency that runs the programs, said that Medicare was likely to consider national coverage for the new use of implantable defibrillators. Medicare, he said, pays for technologies that are ''clinically effective.'' So far, cost has not been a factor in Medicare decisions, Dr. Tunis said, though Medicare is not legally prevented from considering it. But, he noted, Medicare's budget is fixed. ''As money for some particular service is increased, it may be that it causes a reduction in payments for other services,'' he said. ''It is not necessarily that the pie expands.'' Dr. Moss said that all 1,232 patients in the study had a heart-pumping function that was less than half of normal; they were also already being treated with the only drugs known to prolong their lives, beta-blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, also known as ace inhibitors. But neither addressed the arrhythmia problem.
''The sad part is that the public looks to doctors for advice about this test, but the truth is, we don't have the information,'' said Dr. Gerald Chodak, the director of the Prostate and Urology Center at the University of Chicago's Louis A. Weiss Memorial Hospital. ''There are some potentially good things about screening and I'm not denying those. But there are also potentially bad things that are not insignificant. Right now, it's a totally individual sort of decision.'' When Nature Keeps Calling MEN bothered by their prostates may be able to enjoy better living through chemistry rather than surgery. A man's prostate gland typically begins enlarging in early middle age, a process known as benign prostatic hyperplasia, or B.P.H. (''benign''  means the growth is not cancerous; ''hyperplasia'' means more cells than normal are present). The growing prostate may squeeze the urethra, the tube carrying urine from the bladder to the penis. The resulting symptoms include difficulty urinating, weakened flow and a frequent need to urinate, which can be especially annoying at night.
''It's time. You're over 50,'' my internist said casually during my routine physical in November. ''I'm sure you don't want to hear this, but you really should have a colonoscopy. Is there colon cancer in your family?'' ''Actually, there was,'' I answered. ''My maternal grandmother had it late in life.'' ''Then this is no longer elective,'' he added decisively. ''You have to do it.'' Great. Another invasive procedure. I already had multiple sclerosis, with my share of ordeals by procedure, steroid injections under my eyes and catheters snaked through arteries from my groin to my brain.  I didn't particularly want to participate in this next adventure. I just wanted to be indemnified against another disease. So now it would be the tush test. A television camera inserted into my rectum. The closer I came to the appointed hour with the gastroenterologist, the more I realized my utter horror was increasing and was out of proportion. What's wrong with this picture?
We sat down in the hotel restaurant, and Boisselier ordered a chicken Caesar salad and a decaf coffee. I don't know what I expected -- somebody spacier or in silver spandex, maybe. Boisselier was neither, and yet the conversation we had that day was deeply strange nonetheless. She said she had a lab up and running, ''not offshore, not in the Bahamas; somewhere in the United States.'' She wouldn't say where, except that it wasn't in one of the states that had outlawed cloning: ''I'm no fool.'' She had assembled a team of three -- a geneticist, a biochemist and an ob-gyn currently affiliated with an in-vitro fertilization clinic -- and she said that the first two were working on the project full time, experimenting with cattle cloning initially and then moving on to human cells sometime this winter. Was Boisselier worried about miscarriages or fetal abnormalities? ''We will monitor the developing embryo and the pregnancy very closely,'' she said calmly. ''We want a healthy baby.'' And she said that the surrogates who had volunteered to carry the cloned embryo -- one of whom is Boisselier's own 22-year-old daughter, Marina Cocolios -- were prepared to undergo abortions if defects were revealed by ultrasound or amniocentesis. If one pregnancy failed, another surrogate would automatically step into line; there would be no need to wait another month, as you would have to if you were dependent on the cycles of just one woman.
She has a 9-year-old son, and she said she felt she could not start again with a newborn child. This, too, is common. More than half of all women having abortions have had children, a percentage that rose in the 1980's but has not changed since 1990, according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Karen and her boyfriend have an unstable relationship plagued by money problems, and they lived with a relative after being evicted from their home. She did not come in earlier in the pregnancy, she said, because she did not have the money. In the end, because she was so far along, her abortion took two days and cost $1,375, nearly three times what it would have cost if she had come in at 12 weeks. ''People tell you you can put your child up for adoption,'' she said. ''But if your kid has medical problems, no one wants to adopt him. And you never know.''
In one early finding, the department reported that women whose children suffered from leukemia drank more tap water than others. Almost every month for five years, researchers have presented their results to the public in the red oak-paneled meeting room of the Dover Township Municipal Building, where the Citizens Action Committee for the Childhood Cancer Cluster Investigation has gathered. Now, on Monday, all the pieces may finally come together. ''We will be asking two questions: Were the case children more likely to be exposed to water sources, or air pollution sources?'' Mr. Fagliano said. The state's congressional delegation and the families who took part will be the first to learn the answers. On Tuesday night, the public will be briefed at Toms River High School East. One of the more troubling questions may linger: will the study restore the community's faith in government? ''It's going to depend if they get results or not,'' Mrs. Gillick said. ''When you're talking lives of children, let's hope we get some real answers here.''
Dr. Eric D. Peterson, a cardiologist at Duke University who led a similar study with a national sample of patients, found that although there was less angioplasty on weekends, there was no difference in mortality rates. ''We couldn't prove that early catheterization was that key,'' Dr. Peterson said, using a term for same-day angioplasty. He added that the results might reflect findings from New Jersey at a time angioplasty for heart attack patients was being adopted. Dr. Mark A. Hlatky, a cardiologist and professor of health research and policy at Stanford University, doubted that the sole reason for extra weekend deaths was less aggressive care. ''There is more going on,'' Dr. Hlatky said. The weekend effect shows up in the data as early as 1987 to 1990, when angioplasty was almost never used to save the lives of heart attack patients. ''So this is not as simple as 'no doctor to do the procedure on weekends,' '' Dr. Hlatky said, adding that other factors might include staffing in coronary intensive care units.
The team did not even have to wait for Taubenberger to finish the whole sequence of the 1918 virus to begin testing its virulence. In 2001, Adolfo Garcia-Sastre and Christopher Basler, also at Mount Sinai, reconstructed the genes for just the two critical surface proteins and sent them on to Tumpey, at that time working at the Southeast Poultry Research Laboratory in Athens, Ga. Taking advantage of influenza's innate ability to mix and match genes from two strains, he combined the two 1918 genes with others from an innocuous laboratory strain to make a complete set. Tumpey infected some lab mice, which are normally not affected much by human flus. Five days later, he came into the laboratory at around 11 at night for a quick check on their progress. All the mice were dead. In person, Tumpey is unnervingly imperturbable; ask him what it's like handling an infectious agent that killed perhaps 50 million people, and he stares back at you and gives a little shrug. But this first demonstration of the virus's power got to him.
''Now we have girls in the class, so I can't say it,'' he said, ''but I still tell them that nothing is worth losing the ability to have a family.'' Mr. Fusaro said he tried to keep his athletes working out at school, not at the local gyms. Meanwhile, Sachem's weight program, open even in the summer, is being used by more and more non-athletes and women. ''Back when I played there was very little weight training,'' he said. ''Now we have our ninth-graders lifting. You can't field a successful team today without a weight program.'' He said he has had no athletes taking steroids, but powders are a different story. ''The powders become a very sore subject, a taboo thing,'' he said. ''Coaches are not supposed to be getting involved. You know for a fact you got kids taking creatine, but they won't ask you about it, like they don't ask you about drinking.''
Dr. Salick began opening for-profit centers in 1986 in California, then expanded to Florida. He says that his niche is the 24-hour comprehensive service that patients can get in his centers, and that his deep knowledge of managed care, prevalent in California for a decade but still fairly new to this area, gives him an edge. He also provides the financing, badly needed by hospitals with dwindling resources, to get clinics off the ground. ''I have a highly credible reputation of running very cost effective facilities,'' Dr. Salick said in an interview. ''You have wonderful hospitals and wonderful doctors in New York, but there is a breakdown in the delivery system. You go to these places at nine at night and no one is there. Cancer is a disease that happens to go on 24 hours a day. All these other hospitals are doing is opening a center and sticking some doctors in there.''
The American Academy of Anti-Aging Medicine, an advocacy group that says it has more than 17,000 doctor members, wrote a response on its Web site: ''At no time has Congress evinced any intent to restrict ethical physicians from prescribing HGH to mature or elderly adults for medical reasons within their sound judgment.'' Amid the crossfire, most mainstream doctors advise caution. Dr. Takahashi wrote an article for the Mayo Clinic's Web site outlining the risks and approved uses of HGH, concluding that ''more study is needed.'' Conservative approaches to HGH therapy are being influenced by an evolution of thought on estrogen replacement therapy, Dr. Takahashi said. Once viewed as a remedy for postmenopausal changes, estrogen is now linked to increased cancer risk. ''We learned a lot from that experience,'' he said. ''It's possible that human growth hormone could allow people to be a little bit better for a little bit longer. The question is, at what price? I think it could be a pretty high price.''
The report is expected to be made public by the Pentagon on Wednesday, and it will doubtless lead to a new effort by veterans groups and some lawmakers to secure additional disability payments to veterans who have long complained of health problems they attribute to Agent Orange exposure. It will also fuel the longstanding scientific debate over whether Agent Orange is linked to a variety of other diseases, including cancer. The Air Force study found that there was ''no consistent evidence'' that the herbicide causes cancer, a finding backed by other studies. A copy of the executive summary of the report was made available to The New York Times by a government official who asked not to be identified. The executive summary does not provide the exact numbers of veterans in the study who were found to have diabetes, and it cautioned against trying to extrapolate the findings to all 3 million veterans of the Vietnam War. According to the American Diabetes Association, 15.7 million Americans, or about 6 percent of the population, have diabetes.
The study's findings have been released in two reports. The first came two years ago when the estrogen-plus-progestin part of the study was prematurely shut down because of data showing an increased risk of heart attacks, strokes and breast cancer among women taking the hormone combination. Over the next 12 months, prescriptions that had once soared -- to 91 million in 2001 -- nose-dived. Sales of hormones overall fell 38 percent while sales of Prempro, the popular mix of estrogen and progestin that was the subject of the study, fell 74 percent, according to a study published this year in The Journal of the American Medical Association. Other research commissioned by drug companies showed that 18.5 million women used hormone therapy in 2002, but that had dropped to 7.6 million by January 2004. Leonard Wood, president of Multi-sponsor Surveys Inc. of Princeton, N.J., a private research firm, said that sales used to be equally divided between menopausal women and older women hoping for anti-aging benefits. ''What you're left with now is women experiencing significant problems with menopause,'' he said.
''The data showed that bleeding didn't work,'' Dr. Freedman said. But, he said, ''Dr. Louis rejected this as terrifying and absurd.'' So, he made a recommendation: bleed earlier and bleed harder. THE NATION
Many of Sloan-Kettering's most prominent doctors will help oversee the development of the center, and patients whose cancers are diagnosed there may be referred to Sloan-Kettering for drug trials or other treatments, something that many Harlem patients can ill afford and know little about. The move may reflect Dr. Varmus's interest in applying more of the hospital's research toward clinical care for a broader swath of patients. Easy access to good care is crucial to early diagnoses of cancer, both doctors said. Late detection is the No. 1 reason that people die from treatable forms of cancer, and studies have shown that many forms of cancer are detected later in blacks than in whites. For instance, in a 20-year study of more than 700 women in Harlem that ended in 1986, only 30 percent had survived breast cancer five years after diagnosis, compared with national rates closer to 65 percent, Dr. Freeman said. Looked at another way, the study found that only 6 percent of the women had early-stage, or the most treatable, cancers. Since the center's inception, that rate has risen to 40 percent, Dr. Freeman said.
''Hey, this is a capitalist society,'' says Wayne W. Grody, a U.C.L.A. molecular geneticist who has been at the center of this debate for years. ''People like Slavin took advantage of that. You know, the way I see it is, If you think of doing that on the front end, more power to you.'' Question of Consent The difference between Ted Slavin and John Moore wasn't that Slavin owned his tissues and Moore didn't. (No court ruled that Slavin had the right to control his excised tissues; he just did it.) The difference was information. Someone told Slavin that his tissues were special and that scientists might want them. So he was able to control his tissues by establishing his terms before anything left his body. In other words, he was informed, and he gave consent. In the end, the question isn't whether people have the ability to control their tissues; it is how much science should be obligated (ethically and legally) to put them in the position to do so.
Set in Southern California at the Long Beach Memorial Medical Center, home to one of the nation's best neonatal units, Mr. Humes's narrative follows the infant patients, their families and a remarkable cadre of medical personnel. It is riveting story-telling. ''The most impressive, rewarding, distressing, chaotic, mesmerizing aspect of the N.I.C.U.,'' he writes, ''is that it never stops. There is never just one story unfolding, never just one life-and-death decision to make, never just one expression of joy or sorrow or bewilderment.'' Mr. Humes introduces his readers to the attending physician who works through the night and well into the morning, surrounded by mounds of patient files. A colleague says, ''Don't you hate all this routine work?'' The doctor shakes her head and replies: ''This isn't the routine. The babies are the routine. This is the interruption.'' There is the young mother slumped next to her daughter's incubator and singing softly. Then she whispers fiercely, ''We're going to do it, baby, I promise you that.''
''My oldest son won't let me see my grandchildren,'' said Sherry Steele, 57, a surgical assistant who started working at the clinic after her daughter had two abortions. The New York Times agreed to anonymity to encourage candor and to get a representative sample of women. (Those who volunteer their full names are by nature an unrepresentative minority.) On this August weekend, the women entering the Little Rock clinic resembled those who have abortions nationwide. They were mainly in their 20's, more likely to be poor and African-American than the area population. Most were already mothers, many single. They arrived as a result of failure of one sort or another: a poor sexual decision, a broken relationship, a birth control method that just did not work. More than half of all women who have abortions say they used a contraceptive method in the month they conceived, according to the Alan Guttmacher Institute, a research group that supports abortion rights.
If either of those proves to be the case, it could help explain the still unsolved death of Kathy T. Nguyen, the 61-year-old hospital worker from the Bronx who died of inhalation anthrax Oct. 31. No trace of anthrax has yet been found in her Bronx apartment, the local post offices or the Manhattan hospital where she worked, and investigators were initially reluctant to believe that she could have contracted inhalation anthrax from what they termed a cross-contaminated piece of mail. The spore of anthrax found on the Seymour letter -- a personal letter delivered in October -- is not enough to make anyone ill, said Dr. Joxel Garcia, the Connecticut public health commissioner. But its presence lends credence to the growing suspicion among state and federal officials that Mrs. Lundgren, because of her advanced age, could have been killed by a fraction of the 8,000 to 10,000 spores that epidemiologists say are necessary to infect the average person.
''Treatment of Alzheimer's disease patients with these drugs is not justified,'' Dr. Aisen said. Nor should anyone take anti-inflammatories in the hope of preventing Alzheimer's, he said, adding: ''People who are looking to reduce their risk of Alzheimer's disease should not take these drugs until the results of prevention trials are in and we can weigh the risks and against the benefits.'' He said it was possible, but not likely, that the drugs in the study might have shown a benefit if they had been given for a longer time. ''Because the results at one year were so clearly negative,'' Dr. Aisen said, ''I'm not planning to do a longer treatment trial.'' Rather, he is looking into other possible treatments, including B vitamins, which might lower levels of homocysteine, an amino acid thought to play a role in heart disease and Alzheimer's. Another promising possibility, Dr. Aisen said, is to identify drugs that would inhibit an enzyme, beta secretase, which appears to lead to the release of plaque-making proteins in the brain.
The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists has recommended that doctors widen the net by considering other factors, including body mass index; a more sensitive test of insulin resistance; age, exercise habits and ethnic background; and family history of Type 2 diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease. Some experts believe doctors should also look carefully for high levels of C-reactive protein because of its role in inflammation. ''CRP is one important part of the metabolic syndrome and an important cause of the consequences of metabolic syndrome,'' Dr. Einhorn said. Dr. Steven Nissen, the lead author of one of two CRP studies published in The New England Journal of Medicine this year, agreed. ''The elevation of inflammation is likely a key reason why metabolic syndrome leads to accelerated coronary disease risk,'' he said. Some experts are also looking at another possible risk factor to add to the syndrome: fibrinogen, a protein that signals the body to form or break down blood clots.
One group having trouble winning access to treatment is the poor, among whom obesity is an especially acute concern. Doctors say that Medicaid programs in many states have been reluctant to pay for the procedures. At the University of California at Davis, for example, Medi-Cal patients face a 12-year wait for bariatric surgery, said Dr. Bruce M. Wolfe, a bariatric surgeon and professor of surgery. Medi-Cal reimburses Davis for the procedure at less than a third of the hospital's cost. ''Basically they're not getting access to the care,'' he said. ''They will suffer the consequences of untreated obesity.'' Most bariatric procedures produce weight loss by restricting the intake of food. Part of the stomach is partitioned off and the intestines are rerouted. Afterward, many patients lose their outsize appetites. ''Patients can eat smaller amounts and feel satisfied,'' said Dr. Alan C. Wittgrove, a San Diego surgeon who is president of the American Society for Bariatric Surgery. But there can also be unpleasant consequences: if they eat too much, patients may vomit.
Fox, which is not known for squeamishness -- the network has produced ''When Animals Attack'' and ''Who Wants to Marry a Multimillionaire?'' -- declined, in large part because the project seemed ''loaded with ethical questions'' as an entertainment program, the executive said. Joe Earley, a Fox spokesman, said only, ''We were pitched the project, but we thought it was more appropriate for our news department and we referred it to them.'' Fox News declined to make an offer, the executive said. Dr. Guillen approached other news divisions and cable companies as well, including ABC, NBC, CBS, CNN and HBO, media executives said. An executive at one network said the offer, which would have given his network little editorial control and would have meant significant payments to Dr. Guillen, was ''not the way we do things.'' The executive said the proposed exclusive documentary about the process of creating the first human clone was offered for a price in the ''low six figures.''
Drug companies have rushed to invest in the new research; today nearly every major company is competing to develop antiobesity drugs. And researchers who had embarked on their work out of scientific curiosity are starting to hope they might strike it rich with a magic pill that will melt away pounds. Until research succeeds, though, many fat people are left with few options. ''It's a very difficult situation,'' said Dr. Rudolph Leibel, an obesity researcher at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in New York. ''You have to be very careful about instituting treatment for something when you know from first principles that the treatment is not likely to be efficacious.'' ''On the other hand,'' Dr. Leibel added, ''the patients are so desperate.'' A Losing Battle Some weight loss programs promote special food combinations. Others advise calorie counting. But the bottom line is almost always the same: losing weight and keeping it off is a matter of diet, exercise and discipline.
Still, Dr. Pickhardt says, it is the best procedure. Sigmoidoscopy does not show the entire colon, and the fecal occult blood test has too many false positives and false negatives. Dr. Beck also believes that colonoscopy is best. ''You visualize the entire mucosa,'' he says. ''If we find something, we can treat it. The other tests don't completely examine the colon, they are not as accurate, and if we find something, you have to have a colonoscopy.'' That reasoning is persuasive, said Dr. Robert Smith, director of screening at the American Cancer Society. Still, ''we recommend and encourage options because the public does not have universal access to screening colonoscopy, and studies have shown that a significant proportion of the public prefers a different test.'' Dr. Pignone says that informed patients are divided on which test they prefer. ''People think they know what patients want,'' he said. ''If you don't ask them, you have no idea.''
But wait a minute. Don't those compelling five-year survival statistics of 80 percent vs. 15 percent prove that CT screening works? The short answer is no. You have to consider exactly how a five-year survival rate is figured. It is a fraction. Imagine 1,000 people diagnosed with lung cancer five years ago. If 150 are alive today, the five year survival is 150/1000, or 15 percent. Yet even if CT screening raised the five-year survival rate to 80 percent, it is entirely possible that no one gets an extra day of life. The best way to understand this paradox is to work through a thought experiment. First, consider a group of people with lung cancer who will all die at age 70. If they first receive the diagnosis when they are 67, their five-year survival rate would be zero percent. But if these same people had received their diagnoses earlier -- at, say, age 63 -- the five-year survival rate would be 100 percent. Yet death would still come at 70 for all of them. Earlier diagnosis always increases the five-year survival statistic, but it doesn't necessarily mean that death is postponed.
Dr. Wu and many of his colleagues have trouble sleeping at night. When he does sleep, he has nightmares that he is still in a pneumonia ward. On Wednesday night, for example, he dreamed that he had absent-mindedly entered a ward with only a single mask, and was inhaling a potentially lethal concentration of viral particles. ''I'd be bound to be infected in that case,'' he said. ''I woke up immediately because it was so scary.'' Such is the terror of the disease here, and so great are the risks from daily trips into the pneumonia wards, that Dr. Wu does not tell casual acquaintances about what he does, lest they shun him. He has not even told his parents or his wife's parents. ''They would have gone crazy with this outbreak,'' he said. Although he agreed to an interview, Dr. Wu refused to go to a restaurant or any other public place in case he had any of the virus on him and might infect others. Instead, he insisted on the doctor's lounge of his hospital, Prince of Wales, explaining that the room, just off the deserted hospital lobby, had a separate air-conditioning system from the rest of the hospital.
In the wake of that announcement, the medical community reached a consensus that estrogen and progestin supplements should not be prescribed for more than a few years. The new findings help to fill out the factors in deciding to use hormone therapy even in the short term. They are also consistent with the results of another large study, reported in 1998, which found an increased risk of heart attack soon after the start of hormone therapy. One possible explanation is that hormone therapy appears to have an immediate effect on blood clotting, Dr. Manson said. ''If a woman has a narrowed blood vessel, the sudden increase in clotting can lead to a heart attack very rapidly,'' she said. Dr. Manson noted that women who take hormones to treat the hot flashes and night sweats that sometimes accompany menopause tend to be in their early 50's, so that their risk of heart attack is, on average, less than one half of one percent. Even if doubled, that risk remains less than one percent.
Lillie Shockney  Breast cancer survivor, registered nurse, Johns Hopkins Breast Center, Baltimore I'm a huge fan of mammography. My cancer was found accidentally on a mammogram. It was 10 years ago. I was 38, and I had a baseline mammogram. I had found a lump on my right breast, which ended up being a cyst. But they found an invasive tumor in my left breast. It was just four millimeters, very tiny, and would only have been found on a mammogram. If I had waited until I was 40 to have my baseline, I probably would not be talking with you right now. I had no family history, no known risk factors, like smoking or early menstruation or having a first child after age 30. Seventy percent of women with breast cancer have no known risk factors. Mammography is still at this moment in time our best weapon for early detection. I cannot imagine a woman not pursuing it.
The growing use of the costly defibrillators is drawing particular attention. Until recently, such units were typically implanted by highly trained heart device specialists. But since last year, when the government agreed to pay for tens of thousands more patients annually to get such devices, many new practitioners like those in Rock Hill have entered the field. One result is that patients do not realize that the training and experience of doctors can vary widely. ''A patient does not know whether they are a doctor's third implant or their 300th,'' said Dr. Charles E. Swerdlow, a heart device expert in Los Angeles who advocates rigorous training standards. To meet patient demand, the Heart Rhythm Society, a professional group that represents experts like Dr. Swerdlow, adopted so-called fast-track training guidelines two years ago for doctors who had not implanted defibrillators before. But those guidelines, of which the daylong written test is one part, are voluntary. No one knows what percentage of physicians who have recently begun to put in defibrillators are following the guidelines.
Some experts are deeply concerned. With marketing promotions that can shade the truth, referring doctors and patients can find it hard to distinguish between centers with good reputations, like RMA, and ones that promise much more than they can deliver. And some clinics that offer inducements like money-back guarantees may end up doing risky procedures hoping to improve the odds of pregnancy. For example, critics say, they may implant too many embryos -- the number that qualifies as too many depends on the woman's age and other factors. That raises the chances of pregnancy but also increases the odds the woman will end up with three or more fetuses, a hazard to mother and babies. ''You have desperate patients,'' said Dr. Barry Behr, who directs Stanford's in vitro fertilization laboratory and four others. ''And the potential is there to exploit vulnerable people.'' At the very least, said Dr. Alan Garber, an internist at Stanford, patients may want to know that the doctor who referred them to a fertility expert was accepting gifts and expensive dinners.
Some maple trees might leave southern New England, which would be a noticeable loss in foliage season. ''There will be changes that offend people,'' Dr. Mendelsohn said. ''But it appears that they will be more gentle than we thought. Scientists had feared that we'd go from some intact forests to moonscapes, but that's not likely to happen. We'll go from one type of ecosystem to another, which for most people will not be that dramatic.'' For Northerners, the savings in heating bills will offset the higher air-conditioning bills in the summer, Dr. Mendelsohn said, but Southerners will see their energy costs increase. Southern coastal dwellers will be more affected by the sea-level rise because there's more low-lying land in the South. Northern skiers will have their own problems. ''SKIING in New York State will undoubtedly be worse,'' Dr. Mendelsohn said. ''But in fact, most outdoor recreation happens in the summer, so there would be a large increase in outdoor recreation from global warming. More people would be hiking and playing golf all fall, as they did this year.''
In the nebulous language of eulogy, Ellen Roche, a bright, healthy, 24-year-old volunteer in an asthma study at Johns Hopkins University, died for the sake of science. In clinical terms, Ms. Roche died because a chemical she inhaled in the study led to the progressive failure of her lungs and kidneys. But in the plain speech that has been missing from official reports on the disastrous experiment, medical experts say Ms. Roche's death on June 2 was almost certainly caused by the failure of scientists and administrators charged with her well-being to recognize that the experiment was unsafe. Still, while they agree that clues about the risky nature of the experiment are clear in retrospect, scientists and other experts around the country remain divided about whether the evidence was obvious enough at the time to assign culpability to one researcher, to Hopkins, or to the overall system for assessing research involving humans in the United States.
''Compared to aspirin, statins are about tenfold safer for serious adverse events,'' Dr. Fonarow said. Half of those who start taking statins stop within a year. And most who say they are simply going to lose weight, exercise regularly and change their diets backslide. ''Patients don't like to think of themselves as having a condition that requires that they watch what they eat and perhaps take medicine for the rest of their lives,'' said Dr. David Waters, a professor of medicine at the University of California at San Francisco. ''You could blame it on the patients,'' Dr. Waters said. ''You could blame it on the doctors. You could also blame it on the health care system. Health care plans don't really care if you get your cholesterol tested and treated. It's a combination of factors.''
She is also awaiting a membership card from the H.M.O. that will administer her benefits. She does not realize that such cards take months to arrive. By the time she pieces this puzzle together, months later, she figures it is too late to have Medicaid pay her hospital bill. In fact, it might not be, but she does not try. She is eager to start treating her tumor, but before she can, she realizes that she is pregnant. She could hardly be more stunned -- she has been told that her untreated tumor makes her infertile -- and she blames her lack of insurance. If she had health care, she reasons, the tumor would be under control, she would have known that pregnancy was possible, and she would have used birth control. ''This just seems like something in a movie or something, like I'm watching it but it couldn't really be happening to me,'' she says.
This eventually led to the current class, or serotonin selective reuptake inhibitors, the Prozac-like compounds that so many people take today. Q. As a witness-participant to one revolution, how did you react when the human genome was mapped? A. I felt this is the great story of my time. The world of medicine and health will change because of it. Instead of diagnosing people after they have begun to experience illness, we will, at some point in the future, be able to predict who is likely to be vulnerable to a problem. For a physician to be able to stop something from going wrong is much better than trying to fix something once it has gone wrong. Many of the most frequently occurring diseases such as Alzheimer's and depression have genetic aspects. By pursuing genomic clues, we will be able to figure out interactions and maybe delay the onsets of these conditions.
This is something that Terrence Tumpey, among others, insists that we cannot afford. Earlier this month, the H5N1 virus recorded an extraordinary rash of cases, including four fatalities in Turkey, the first outside East Asia. All the victims appear to have caught the virus from eating or handling infected poultry. But most flu researchers worry that as the virus's range increases, so does the likelihood that somewhere, sometime, some random set of mutations will send it over the edge into transmissibility, unleashing a pandemic. Everyone agrees that at some point, another pandemic will come -- if not from this strain, then from some other one perhaps not even yet under surveillance. The best hope of containing its impact is to understand how it works. What are its mechanisms of infection and replication? How does it foil the host's immune response and jump from a conquered host to a fresh one?
On Wednesday afternoon, he stopped by the Indian Health Center in San Jose. As patients and employees took turns poking at the screen, an occasional ''What is it?'' or ''Oops!'' seemed to foretell what ballot workers might expect on Election Day. Mr. Morillo said that reactions to the touch screens have generally been mixed, and that Santa Clara County -- like every California county where similar electronic voting is in place -- would offer a paper ballot alternative for those who, for whatever reason, are not comfortable with the machines. ''The thing about the touch screen,'' he said, ''is that you either love it or hate it.''
All of this matters to the young woman -- a lot. In the examining room, she twice asks the nurse-practitioner what ''it'' looks like at this point. ''When does it start looking like a person?'' she asks. ''When can you see a face?'' She wants to know about brain waves (not yet measurable) and the presence or absence of a beating heart (it's there, in rudimentary form). She called for her appointment here the very morning she did her at-home pregnancy test. That this is a method designed solely for early pregnancy -- from the moment a woman knows she is pregnant to about nine weeks -- appeals to her almost as much, if not more than, the fact that it allows her to avoid a surgical abortion. Surgery scares her. ''Invasive'' is the word she uses, and she shudders when she says it. There will be no surgery for her -- unless this is one of those rare cases (about 2 percent, according to the latest clinical trials of mifepristone) when abortion by medication does not work and vacuum aspiration by machine, the most common method of abortion now, becomes necessary after all. And there will be no trek to a clinic, where anyone watching her enter and leave could make a reasonable surmise about her business there. No protesters to dodge, no one shouting ''baby killer.'' The office she is visiting today is tucked deep in a sprawling hospital complex in Rochester, where she lives. Hundreds of people come and go here all day for everything from vaccinations to gall-bladder operations to visits with hospitalized friends. And the doctor this young woman sees isn't even an OB-GYN. He's a pediatrician who developed an interest in medical abortion while treating pregnant teen-agers and who has lately been conducting research on mifepristone. How could even the most enterprising anti-abortion picketer figure out whom to buttonhole?
Dr. Yusuf was referring not just to device makers but also to interventional cardiologists, the specialists who do angioplasty and stenting. The technology was born 30 years ago when Dr. Andreas Gruentzig first used a catheter threaded into a coronary artery to inflate a tiny balloon inside a developing blockage. The arrival of a minimally invasive alternative to bypass surgery for restoring blood flow to ailing hearts led to a rush of investment in device companies. Small fortunes were made in the mid-1990s when stents were invented in response to angioplasty's biggest shortcoming -- the tendency of arteries to quickly reclose. Those fortunes became giant ones when drug-coated stents were introduced in the United States in 2003, sending the number of patients returning for repeat procedures below 10 percent. The Taxus stent from Boston Scientific, which arrived in 2004, achieved more sales in its first year than any health care product in history.
Maybe, the researchers thought, if they could immediately stop the virus with powerful drugs, the helper cells could survive and remain in the body, ready to direct an attack if the virus tried to re-emerge. And they might be there in sufficient numbers to hold the AIDS virus in check. That meant that the patients might be able to stop taking the drugs and let their immune systems control their infections. Dr. Walker and Dr. Rosenberg went to their hospital's ethics board and asked permission to do the experiment. ''This was a time when people said, 'Treat, treat, treat and never miss a dose,' '' Dr. Walker said. ''We said we want to stop therapy. They said, 'You're out of your mind.' '' It took a year to get approval. Now the study is well under way, with 40 patients in various stages of taking drugs or coming off them. So far, the results are preliminary but promising. ''We're extremely excited,'' Dr. Walker said.
''I think that they're being oversold,'' Mr. Kerner said. ''I especially think they're being oversold to young people.'' Both the media and analysts have overstated the size of the market for impotence drugs, said Matt Beebe, United States brand team leader for Cialis, the drug from Eli Lilly and the Icos Corporation that is the only impotence drug whose sales are increasing. The typical user of an impotence drug is a man in his early 60's who is married and wants to have sex a few times a month, as he has for years, Mr. Beebe said. ''They don't want to be turned into a 20-year-old again,'' Mr. Beebe said. ''They just want to be a man and not have to worry about sexual dysfunction.'' Viagra, the first impotence drug in pill form, generated enormous interest even before Pfizer began selling it in May 1998. Worldwide sales topped $1 billion in 1999, and some Wall Street analysts predicted that Viagra sales would reach several billion dollars annually. For example, in 1998 Morgan Stanley predicted sales would hit $2.6 billion in 2000, while Gruntal &amp; Company said they could reach $4.5 billion by 2004.
Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Human Genome Research Institute, said, ''I can confidently tell you that something will happen here.'' The federal officials and Dr. Lander acknowledged that finding money for the project would be difficult in a time of tight budgets. They said that new money would probably have to be appropriated by Congress and that the pharmaceutical industry might contribute because the information would be useful for drug development. The project, which might end up with a different name, would determine the sequence of the DNA in at least 12,500 tumor samples, 250 samples from each of 50 major types of cancer. By comparing the order of the letters of the genetic code in the tumor samples with one another and with sequences in healthy tissue, it should be possible to pinpoint mutations responsible for cancer. But the proposition is extremely daunting. In general, each tumor cell holds a full panoply of human DNA, a string of three billion letters of the genetic code. So determining the full sequence of all the tumors would be the equivalent of 12,500 human genome projects. At a cost of many millions of dollars for one genome, the full project would be out of the question for now.
Death rates from heart disease in New York City and its suburbs are among the highest recorded in the country, and no one quite knows why. Heart disease is more common among poorer people. Yet Nassau County, one of the 15 highest-income counties in the country, suffers heart disease death at a rate 20 percent above the norm, a review of death certificate records by The New York Times shows. Some New Jersey counties have similar rates. All the city boroughs except Manhattan have rates as high as rural counties in the South and Appalachia. The pattern has raised questions about whether people in the New York area live with an excess of heart disease risks -- stress, bad diets, too little exercise. But it has also prompted speculation that doctors in the area may lump deaths with more subtle causes into the heart disease category, making that toll look worse than it actually is.
This would seem to be a bind, because the benefits of family planning are profound: couples can organize their lives, financially and otherwise, when they are able to choose when to have children and how many to have. And, around the world, countries in which abortion is legal and contraception is widely available tend to rank among the lowest in rate of abortion, while those that outlaw abortion -- notably in Central and South America and Africa -- have rates that are among the highest. According to Stanley K. Henshaw of the Guttmacher Institute, recent drops in abortion rates in Eastern Europe are due to improved access to contraceptives. The U.S. falls somewhere in the middle in rate of abortion: at 21 per 1,000 women of reproductive age, it is roughly on par with Nigeria (25), much better than Peru (56) but far worse than the Netherlands (9). The Netherlands, where the teen pregnancy rate also ranks among the lowest in the world, has long been of interest to sex educators in the U.S. for the frankness of its approach. The national sex education course, called Long Live Love, begins at age 13. One of its hallmarks has been dubbed ''Double Dutch'' -- encouraging the use of both condoms and birth control pills. ''It's proven successful,'' says Margo Mulder of STI AIDS Netherlands, the Dutch health education center. ''It shows that when you discuss contraception and protection with students, they actually are careful. And I know that some people in the U.S. say that when you promote contraception, you're also promoting sex, but we've found that when you educate people, they don't have sex earlier. They think about it. So you're not promoting sex, you're helping them to be rational about doing it.''
I was not myself. It was a good month or two before I got myself out of the house. I told the doctors about the depression, and they said it was a normal thing and I'd get over it. I did, but it was still very emotional when it happened. I was so tired and teary. At that time, I had all of my family with  me -- my sisters, my brother, my mother and my husband, of course. That did help quite a bit because they came to my house. They talked to me on the telephone. They tried to get my spirits up, but who likes to be cut up? It got to the point that I really started to worry because it wasn't my nature to be this way. I never suffered from depression. This time around, I had my surgery on my 77th birthday. I'm sure my husband was worried about the depression. I was not nervous about being depressed, but about being in the operating room. I wouldn't say I was depressed this time around, but I was scared.
He ''isn't what most people would have expected from a Republican administration,'' said Dr. Annette Dickinson, president of the Council for Responsible Nutrition, a trade group for the dietary supplement industry. But, she said, ''he's been a breath of fresh air.'' She said her group wanted the agency to stop supplement makers from making false health claims or flouting good manufacturing practices, and supported the ephedra ban. Others regulated by the F.D.A. like the attention they are getting. Dr. Rhona Applebaum, the executive vice president and chief scientific officer of the National Food Processors Association, said that in her 20 years in the industry, she had never seen an F.D.A. commissioner pay so much heed to food. ''So yeah, we're pretty excited,'' she said. Part of Dr. McClellan's success, said Dr. Alan M. Garber, an internist and economist at Stanford, is that he is a pragmatist, not an ideologue. He also has a style that can be immensely appealing.
The researchers found that a woman's risk of a heart attack rises by 81 percent in the first year of hormone therapy. It levels off, so that after 5.6 years -- the length of the study -- the increased risk is 24 percent. Still, Dr. Manson and other physicians not connected to the study noted that the increase in risk may be worth taking for many women whose baseline risk of heart disease is low and who suffer severe hot flashes or night sweats during menopause. The Women's Health Initiative, a study of more than 16,000 women, was halted last July, three years early, after researchers found that subjects who took Prempro, a combination of estrogen and progestin, faced an unacceptably high risk of breast cancer by the fifth year of use. The researchers also found that the therapy increased a woman's risk of heart attack, stroke and blood clots.
But when Ms. Buchanan received a diagnosis of breast cancer a few years ago, she stayed with the local doctor who found her tumor, Dr. Rachel P. Dultz, at University Medical Center, a community hospital in Princeton, N.J. She just had a good, warm feeling about Dr. Dultz, she said, and could not imagine that she would receive better care from anyone else. ''If I went to a Sloan-Kettering, I'm sure there are fabulous people there, but you've got to have total confidence in the person who's going to be taking care of you,'' Ms. Buchanan said. Patsy Brandt of Cherry Hill, N.J., came to the opposite conclusion. She went to the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia, and never investigated any other options for her breast cancer treatment. ''It's sort of a no-brainer when one lives in a doable radius of a major teaching and research hospital,'' Mrs. Brandt said.
Some studies have suggested that increasing the dosage of cholesterol-lowering drugs provides added benefits, but the researchers in this study found no relationship. Similarly, this study, which involved people using six kinds of statins and three nonstatins, found no evidence that any one drug was more effective than another against dementia. The scientists note that their study's participants had an average age of 75 and that their statin use was assessed for a median of five years. It may be that statin use has to begin earlier in life or go on much longer to show an effect in preventing dementia. Yet when the scientists analyzed their data to consider the varying lengths of time their subjects had taken the drugs, they could still detect no preventive effect. The authors acknowledge that their work has certain limitations. The main reason people in this study were prescribed statins was their risk for heart disease, and some studies have suggested that heart disease itself is a risk for dementia. Yet even when only patients without heart disease were considered, the scientists still could find no significant reduction in risk.
Dr. Feldman added that radical prostatectomy, the principal treatment for prostate cancer, causes 50 percent to 70 percent of all patients to become impotent for at least some period of time. Radiation, the other form of aggressive treatment, can cause similar side effects as well as other complications, he added. There is also some risk: approximately 1 percent of patients who undergo a radical prostatectomy die from it. The P.S.A. detects prostate cancers 10 to 15 years earlier than was possible with the digital rectal exam. But because of the nature of prostate cancer -- it is overwhelmingly a disease that afflicts elderly men and is usually very slow-growing -- the early warning is often meaningless. The prostate gland, the size of a walnut, is located in front of the rectum and beneath the bladder. The gland produces the fluid portion of semen and secretes prostate specific antigen, a protein that is pumped into the bloodstream in higher-than-normal amounts by cancerous cells.
By the turn of the century, another diet was all the rage. It was the work of Horace Fletcher, who was inspired by the deplored American habit of devouring food, barely taking time to chew it. Eat only when you are hungry, he said, eat only those foods you crave, and chew every morsel of food until no more taste can be extracted from it. As proof, Fletcher gleefully told how his weight had plummeted. In June 1898, he weighed 205 pounds. Four months later he weighed 163, losing seven inches from his waist. He gained celebrity endorsements. Upton Sinclair chanced upon a magazine article about Fletcher. It was ''one of the great discoveries of my life,'' he wrote. John D. Rockefeller Sr. was Fletcherizing. ''Don't gobble your food,'' he wrote. ''Fletcherize or chew very slowly when you eat.'' But some became disillusioned. Henry James began with great enthusiasm, giving Fletcher's book ''The New Glutton'' to his neighbors and claiming it changed his life. He wrote to Edith Wharton about ''the divine Fletcher'' and to his friend Mrs. Humphrey Ward: ''Am I a convert, you ask? A fanatic.'' But after five years, he was having stomach troubles his doctor attributed to Fletcherism. James found himself ''more and more sickishly loathing food.''
''We do not believe sales will rise as a result of the new dosing regimen,'' Eric Ende, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, wrote in a report last week. The market for impotence drugs has stagnated since last summer, when reports linked the medicines to a rare form of blindness. Eight years after Pfizer, the world's largest drug market, introduced Viagra, the most popular impotence medicine, to enormous publicity, the market for the drugs appears to be saturated. Even with a major new ad campaign for Viagra this year, United States prescriptions for drugs for erectile dysfunction have been flat, compared with a 5 percent rise in prescriptions over all. The $2.5 billion or so of the drugs sold worldwide annually represent only 0.5 percent of the global prescription drug market. But Cialis continues to gain market share, mainly at the expense of Viagra. Lacy Fitzpatrick, a spokeswoman for Icos, said the company expected the market for impotence drugs to grow at about the same rate as the population of men over 40. Levitra, the third impotence drug, marketed by Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline, is a distant third worldwide.
Mr. Hutt thinks a number of prescription drugs, including statins to lower cholesterol and drugs to lower blood pressure, should be available over the counter. But neither he nor others expect major changes in how drugs are classified anytime soon. One reason is many doctors are concerned that patients will use medicines improperly, unless their doctors monitor them. During his time at the F.D.A., Mr. Vodra recalls, ''Every time someone said, 'We're going to make this drug available and we don't have to make doctors gatekeepers,' doctors came in and said, 'This is a horrible thing to do. A lot of people don't understand their bodies, their health and when and how to use drugs properly.''' On one hand, this view includes much truth, he said, but on the other it sometimes prevents people from having easier access to medicines they need.
Human embryonic stem cells may not be the only source of tissue needed to repair damaged organs. Alternative approaches from the mundane to the exotic are being explored to avoid the ethical controversy surrounding embryonic stem cells. Those cells are obtained by destroying human embryos, which some people view as human life. Still, it may be hard for the alternative approaches to measure up to the potential of embryonic stem cells, which have two attributes that make them attractive for regenerative medicine. They are versatile, in that they can be turned into any other type of tissue or cell in the body, at least in theory. And they can be easily multiplied in culture, providing an ample supply of cells. What follows is an assessment of the other possibilities. ADULT STEM CELLS -- These are the most frequently mentioned alternative. Certain tissues, like the bone marrow and brain, harbor small reservoirs of stem cells that the body uses to replenish its tissues.
But Ms. Kayser, now 64, said: ''My incision did not heal for seven months. I could not exercise, and I stopped losing weight. The incision became infected, and I had to have surgery by a wound care specialist. In addition, after four months, I developed a hernia, a bulge in my tummy.'' Bariatric surgery often alleviates conditions that occur with obesity, like diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol. That was the case with Ms. Kayser, who said she no longer needed to take diabetes medications because her blood sugar levels were under control. Dr. Philip R. Schauer, president of the American Society for Bariatric Surgery, estimates that 175,000 to 200,000 weight-loss procedures will be performed this year, up from 47,000 in 2001. The number of people receiving the operation ''may be less than 1 percent of those who need it,'' said Dr. Schauer, director of bariatric surgery at the Cleveland Clinic.
After I was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease two years ago, at the relatively young age of 52, I read everything I could about the condition's usual ''progression'' -- an odd word for degeneration. The worst-case prognosis is grim: a long slide into physical and mental incapacity. That is not going to happen to me, I said, as I began measuring my physical decline. I am young enough that I may be able to benefit from advances in medicine, especially in brain research. Maybe with new medications I would be able to put off taking L-dopa, the best drug for Parkinson's but one that loses its effectiveness over time. Surely better treatments will become available, I told myself. So why didn't I welcome the news that researchers in South Korea were able to clone a human embryo and extract viable stem cells from it? After all, one of the researchers said their goal was ''not to clone humans, but to understand the causes of diseases'' -- and one of the diseases named most often was Parkinson's. Scientists say they may one day find a way to develop stem cells into brain cells to replace the ones that are killed or disabled by Parkinson's.
In back-to-back papers in the nation's two most prestigious medical journals last summer, Dr. Woolhander and her co-authors spelled out their view of health care reform. Drs. Woolhandler, Himmelstein, Marcia Angell (the former editor of The New England Journal of Medicine and a senior lecturer at Harvard) and Quentin D. Young (national coordinator of the Physicians for a National Health Program) published a paper in The Journal of the American Medical Association in August calling for a single-payer system. It was endorsed by 8,000 other doctors. A week later, Dr. Woolhandler and Dr. Himmelstein wrote an article in The New England Journal of Medicine arguing that administrative costs were breaking the back of the American health care system. Q.  How does the United States compare to other industrialized countries in health care expenditures? A.  We spend about twice as much on health care -- $5,600 per person in 2003 -- as the average in other developed nations, yet we still have more than 41 million uninsured.
''It's a prime opportunity,'' said Dr. D'Onofrio, who recently gave a presentation on the issue to a conference of the American College of Emergency Physicians. ''Many of the people are young adults, and they don't use primary care, and they don't have insurance.'' Beyond that, emergency rooms have a way of attracting people with alcohol problems. Estimates vary, but by some counts perhaps a quarter of the people who end up in emergency rooms with some kind of trauma are intoxicated. Even for those who are sober, a disproportionate number are found on further evaluation to have drinking problems. ''I can make the case that a two-minute screen for alcohol-use disorder'' can help doctors discover other medical problems patients may be at risk for, said Dr. Jeffrey W. Runge, the administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and a former emergency room doctor. ''Not to mention the risk of motor vehicle injuries, the risk of spousal abuse, for falls, for other types of injuries.''
It takes a trained doctor about four and a half minutes to ''fly'' up the colon and another four and a half to make a sweep back down, Professor Kaufman said. ''We even paint the surface walls we haven't seen on the way up,'' he added. ''Then when we fly back down we can focus on the areas that were not seen before.'' He said the view up the colon covered about 80 percent of the organ, and the view on the return trip added 15 percent more. ''The last 5 percent is deep cavities and sharp bends, and our system lets the physician step through these areas and examine each one until he's seen 100 percent of the entire colon,'' Professor Kaufman said. The technology is licensed to Viatronix Inc., a company that makes medical imaging products. Professor Kaufman said ''three or four Army hospitals are doing very extensive clinical studies comparing virtual colonoscopy to the conventional method.''
He said several other researchers had also found that the drugs seemed to have less effect on the heart than initially suspected. The American Home Products Corporation, the maker of fenfluramine, has offered to pay more than $4 billion to settle lawsuits filed by consumers, and Interneuron Pharmaceuticals, the maker of dexfenfluramine, has offered $70 million. Phentermine, the ''phen'' part of the drug regimen, has not been associated with health problems and remains on the market. A spokeswoman for American Home said the company had no comment on the Boston study.
''At my age, you adjust to things,'' he said. But in Princeton, Dr. Dultz's patient, Ms. Buchanan, is just as devoted to her and to the hospital there. Dr. Dultz said she encouraged her patients to seek second opinions, but only half do, and nearly all decide to stay at the Princeton hospital. As a result, Dr. Dultz said, she ends up operating on about 200 women a year, which puts her and the hospital into the high-volume category. Those who leave for major medical centers tell her they were persuaded by other family members, she added. A small hospital offers more than the mechanics of medicine, Dr. Dultz said. She tries to always be there for her patients, giving out her home phone number and her cellphone number, meeting patients in the emergency room, going into her office to see patients early in the morning or after her staff has left for the day.
After training at Mount Sinai Medical Center, he spent a year at the Veterans Administration Hospital in the Bronx while waiting to start a fellowship in cardiology. It was there, charged with making a clinic ''more patient-oriented,'' that he became absorbed by a vision of creating an institute dedicated to ''re-establishing compassion and humanism in medicine.'' I stopped him. ''Re-establishing? When was it there? When barbers were the surgeons?'' Dr. Neuwirth can be intense, but he is not without humor and a willingness to negotiate. The first commandment of medicine, ''Do no harm,'' was clearly a measure of humanity and compassion, he said.  Since then there have been stunning lapses. Blaming managed care is easy and wrong, since unmanaged care was hardly perfect. In his vision of ''collaborative medicine,'' the doctor gathers and disseminates information. I think that is an extension of the doctor's power: patients should be in charge of their healing, as consumers and experts in their own needs.
Humans share mostly the same genes. The same genes are found in other animals as well. Our genetic makeup represents the common heritage of all life on earth. You can't patent snow, eagles or gravity, and you shouldn't be able to patent genes, either. Yet by now one-fifth of the genes in your body are privately owned. The results have been disastrous. Ordinarily, we imagine patents promote innovation, but that's because most patents are granted for human inventions. Genes aren't human inventions, they are features of the natural world. As a result these patents can be used to block innovation, and hurt patient care. For example, Canavan disease is an inherited disorder that affects children starting at 3 months; they cannot crawl or walk, they suffer seizures and eventually become paralyzed and die by adolescence. Formerly there was no test to tell parents if they were at risk. Families enduring the heartbreak of caring for these children engaged a researcher to identify the gene and produce a test. Canavan families around the world donated tissue and money to help this cause.
At the other end is the maximum heart rate. It can be crudely estimated by subtracting your age from 220. Ideally, it should be determined through a lab test. But Allen Lim, a former United States national cycling team coach who is doing research on endurance training at the University of Colorado, suggests finding your own maximum rate by wearing a monitor and performing as hard as you can for one to five minutes. (Assuming, of course, that you have cleared the idea of an aerobic exercise program with your doctor first.) All of the monitors I tried have a transmitter belt with an elastic strap and a plastic strip containing two flexible electrodes, some microchips, a battery and a radio. Once moistened and fitted around the chest, the belt picks up the heart's electrical impulses. While the belts look more or less the same, I found considerable differences once I snapped them on. Polar's transmitter belts were the most comfortable, even after several hours of wearing. The Timex belt was the biggest and the least comfortable. (A spokesman for Timex said the company would introduce a smaller belt in late summer.)
Dr. Susan Sieber, the deputy director for communications for the National Cancer Institute, said that in the absence of a proven and direct relationship between breast cancer and the pollutants looked at in the Stellman study, ''we have to fall back on general health measures that we hope will provide a protective effect.'' She said these included prudent diet, exercise, no smoking, and drinking only in moderation. She said a leading theory among cancer researchers involved what she called the gene-environment interaction and how it may determine how environmental conditions increase cancer risks. The Long Island groups said they agreed with the general health measures but objected to any implication that breast cancer rates on Long Island were higher principally because too many women failed to follow such guidelines or had genetic makeups that made them susceptible to breast cancer. Dr. Stellman and the leaders of the breast cancer groups agreed that a geographic information system, which is being set up as part of the Long Island breast cancer project,  would be valuable. The system will seek links between breast cancer rates and current and past exposures to a variety of environmental conditions. These include contaminated drinking water, hazardous waste sites, electromagnetic fields, pesticides and toxic chemicals, and indoor and outdoor air pollution, including aircraft emissions.
''It's a horrendous experience, just an explosion of emotions at once,'' says Dr. Gerald L. Lourie, another team member. ''You know you are either going to be free as the judge says, 'Not guilty,' or you look and you know you just missed this one cold.'' What distinguishes the Denver team from most others is its systematic embrace of frequently occurring shame. The regimen begins with competency tests, in which the doctors run through a stack of mammograms. Many mammogram doctors never take even one such quiz. In Denver they do so at least three times a year. Not only do these tests allow the doctors to study their errors; they also build confidence for those who do well. Once a year, Dr. Adcock also sends out lists of actual cancers missed, known as false negatives, so the doctors can pull the files and commit their mistakes to memory. ''That's your boss telling you, 'These are the ones that weren't so hot,' '' says one of the doctors, Richard A. Propper.
Alpha interferon, a drug used to treat hepatitis C, will be a ''prime candidate'' for clinical trials for a SARS treatment, Dr. Fauci said. In the mid-1980's, Dr. Ronald Turner, then of the University of Utah and now at the University of Virginia, found that alpha interferon, sprayed into the noses of volunteers, reduced symptoms when the volunteers were then exposed to a coronavirus that causes the common cold. The interferon caused nasal irritation severe enough to make it unacceptable as a treatment for colds. But the side effects might be acceptable for a more serious disease like SARS, Dr. Turner said. However, it is ''pretty iffy'' that the approach would work against SARS, he said. The government is also looking at other immune therapies, like extracting antibodies to the SARS virus from the blood of people who have recovered from the disease. Scientists will also look for drugs that block crucial enzymes the virus uses for replication, like proteases. This approach has been successful in treating diseases like AIDS. The drugs used to treat those diseases are not expected to work on SARS because the enzymes are different, but the approach might be used.
Dr. Lobo said he had been moving toward lower doses of estrogen over the last several years. It is logical to assume that lower doses will pose less risk to breast and heart health, he said, though no studies have proved that. Dr. Lobo also sometimes prescribes lower doses of progestin. Some women, he has found in his own practice, can take it for just 10 to 12 days every two or three months. Estrogen can be given in the form of patches, too, which are typically placed on the abdomen. The patches deliver a steady stream of estrogen or estrogen plus progestin directly to the bloodstream for a few days or a week at a time. Some believe that patches may be safer because the estrogen does not go directly through the liver. ''This is also effective for menopause symptoms,'' said Dr. Deborah Grady, director of the Mount Zion Women's Health Clinical Research Center at the University of California in San Francisco. ''But has anyone ever tested transdermal estrogen to see if it's more safe? Well, no.''
Useful Resources Established in 1991, the Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Network, 10400 Eaton Place, Suite 107, Fairfax, Va. 22030, (800) 929-4040, fax (703) 691-2713, offers a wealth of information, including a bulletin at www.foodallergy.org outlining food and allergy policies at various airlines. An associated group, the Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Alliance, www.foodallergyalliance.org, links allergists in Australia, Canada, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Britain and the United States. The MedicAlert Foundation, 2323 Colorado Avenue, Turlock, Calif. 95382, (888) 633-4298, www.medic alert.org, provides members with an easily recognized emblem (bracelet or necklace) engraved with their conditions and a collect call number -- accessible from anywhere in the world, with interpreters available in more than 100 languages -- that a doctor can call to get their files. Membership is $35 for the first year, $20 after that. The American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology, (414) 272-6071, an organization of health professionals, offers a searchable database of member allergists at www.aaaai.org.
Everyone who has even thought about exercising has heard the warnings about lactic acid. It builds up in your muscles. It is what makes your muscles burn. Its buildup is what makes your muscles tire and give out. Coaches and personal trainers tell athletes and exercisers that they have to learn to work out at just below their ''lactic threshold,'' that point of diminishing returns when lactic acid starts to accumulate. Some athletes even have blood tests to find their personal lactic thresholds. But that, it turns out, is all wrong. Lactic acid is actually a fuel, not a caustic waste product. Muscles make it deliberately, producing it from glucose, and they burn it to obtain energy. The reason trained athletes can perform so hard and so long is because their intense training causes their muscles to adapt so they more readily and efficiently absorb lactic acid. The notion that lactic acid was bad took hold more than a century ago, said George A. Brooks, a professor in the department of integrative biology at the University of California, Berkeley. It stuck because it seemed to make so much sense.
Even the motivation argument is debated. One study found that patients who saw an artery scan showing that they had atherosclerosis were more inclined to change their ways. Another found that patients who saw scans of their hearts indicating atherosclerosis did not change their habits in the end, said Dr. Sidney Smith, a heart researcher at the University of North Carolina. ''It remains an untested question how patients might be motivated when they see their CRP,'' he said. Dr. Smith has participated in research that was sponsored by companies making heart drugs and has spoken at company-sponsored symposiums at medical meetings. Some researchers, like Dr. Scott Grundy of the University of Texas Southwestern, do not measure CRP in most patients. People who are diabetic or obese, who smoke or who have high levels of cholesterol or high blood pressure should be doing something to address those risk factors anyway, said Dr. Grundy, who has conducted research that was supported by companies making drugs for heart disease and has received honorariums from drug companies.
Many young doctors dream of having an article published in The New England Journal of Medicine. Hacib Aoun achieved this, but not in the manner he expected. Dr. Aoun's piece, ''When a House Officer Gets AIDS,'' appeared in the Sept. 7, 1989, edition of the journal. It told the story of how, in 1983, as a 27-year-old medical resident, he contracted the disease from a workplace accident. Dr. Aoun's candor, and the journal's willingness to publish his first-person account of his illness, helped capture the terror, and the arbitrariness, of the early years of the AIDS epidemic. Fifteen years later, in an era of triple-drug therapy for H.I.V. infection, Dr. Aoun's piece reads like ancient history, but it also remains surprisingly relevant. I vividly recall seeing the article for the first time. I had just completed medical school and residency in New York. Like other doctors in training then, I had been caught unaware by the gravity of AIDS. And I had had my share of possible exposures to H.I.V., the virus that causes it.
Christina Pearson, a spokeswoman for Mr. Leavitt, refused to say whether Bush administration officials had asked for the resignation. ''I can't comment,'' Ms. Pearson said. ''This is a personnel issue.'' In recent weeks, consumer advocates and scientists inside and outside the agency had said scientific decisions were being warped by politics. On Thursday, a commentary in The New England Journal of Medicine titled ''A Sad Day for Science at the F.D.A.'' said that ''recent actions of the F.D.A. leadership have made a mockery of the process of evaluating scientific evidence,'' disillusioned many scientists, ''squandered the public trust and tarnished the agency's image.'' Mr. Bush said he intended to name Dr. Andrew C. von Eschenbach, director of the National Cancer Institute, to be acting commissioner of food and drugs. Dr. Crawford, a veterinarian and expert on food safety, was named deputy commissioner of the agency in early 2002 before his tenure as acting commissioner. In that time the agency has been rocked by disputes over many issues, including the safety of painkillers like Vioxx, the regulation of heart defibrillators and other devices, and delays in deciding whether to allow over-the-counter sales of an emergency contraceptive.
In a development that illustrates the vicissitudes of drug development, the Wyeth-Elan partnership suffered a major setback in 2002, when the first human trial of an Alzheimer's vaccine, called AN-1792, had to be halted. About 18 patients, or 6 percent of those enrolled, suffered inflammation in their brains. It was an apparent reaction to the vaccine, which used a strand of human protein to prompt an immune response. Despite the severe reactions of some patients, others in the interrupted trial may have responded positively to the vaccine, according to Wyeth's follow-up examinations. The symptoms of some patients who fared well in the trial appeared to have stabilized, a contrast to the inexorable decline usually experienced in Alzheimer's. Autopsies of five trial participants who later died of natural causes revealed evidence of plaque-clearing in their brains. The results supported the idea that Alzheimer's plaque can be attacked with immunotherapy. ''It looked like the vaccine was doing the same thing we've seen in the animals,'' Dr. Pangalos says.
But Dr. Jeffery Taubenberger, chief of the molecular pathology department at the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology in Washington, had an idea for finding that ancient virus. He recalled that his institute had a warehouse of autopsy tissue, established by President Lincoln. Dr. Taubenberger investigated and found tissue from two soldiers who died of the 1918 flu, one in Massachusetts, one on Long Island. The tissue was snips of lung soaked in formalin and encased in little blocks of wax. In that tissue was the virus, broken and degraded, but there, untouched for nearly 80 years. Then Dr. Taubenberger received a third sample, from a woman who had died in Brevig, Alaska, when the flu swept through her village, killing 72 adults and leaving just five. The dead were buried in a mass grave in the permafrost. A retired pathologist, Johan Hultin, hearing of Dr. Taubenberger's quest, had traveled from his home in San Francisco at his own expense. He dug up the grave with the villagers' permission, extracted the woman's still frozen lung tissue and sent it to Dr. Taubenberger.
''There's a network of people, and lot of information is on the Internet now,'' said Shannon Abbey of Woodbine, Ga., a 35-year-old Navy wife who had her son Noah Michael Chase last June, after two in vitro cycles at a clinic in Naples. ''People are more willing to tell you where they went, how they got there, the name, the address.'' Ms. Abbey, for instance, learned that several Navy wives on her husband Kevin's ship, the La Salle, had gone to Italy for help conceiving. She moved there while her husband was mostly deployed at sea, in the Persian Gulf and elsewhere. The prices in Italy ranged from $2,500 to $4,000 for treatments, and a few hundred dollars for medications that cost thousands in the United States. Now, she is in touch with Navy wives and other couples who are flocking everywhere for in vitro fertilization: Colombia, France, Belgium, South Africa, Malaysia, Singapore.
''There were people dabbling in the disease, but their major frustration was that they had just four or five families,'' Ms. Terry said. She saw an opportunity. Establishing a foundation, PX International, Ms. Terry and her husband found 2,000 people with the disease, set up a repository to store tissue samples, and began raising money for research. It took them just four years. ''We said, 'We can get you as many sibling pairs and as many patients as you want,' '' Ms. Terry said she told researchers. The group had no trouble finding scientists who were eager to work with them. ''They are so delighted that we will do all the grunt work,'' she said. The researchers happily signed her group's agreement, Ms. Terry said. They readily agreed to its clause saying that the foundation had to be named in any patent applications arising from the work, that any profits or revenue from the discoveries had to be shared with the foundation and that any genetic test must be made readily available to the foundation, she said.
Fundamental questions remain unanswered, but the general direction is clear, the scientists said. For now, what they have is a proof of principle and a staggering vision of the future. ''It is going to be very hard for us to deal with,'' said Dr. Stock, who is director of the program on medicine, technology and science at the U.C.L.A. medical school. The idea of expanding the human life span to 150, 200 or more years, ''puts a distance between ourselves and all of our history,'' he said. And it puts humans in uncharted waters. ''All of human wisdom on how to live a life,'' no longer would apply, Dr. Stock said. Dr. Jan Vijig, the director of basic research and a professor of physiology at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio, added: ''We have a few small starting points now. We have never been in a position like this before.''
''You would hope that if a case was brought it would be laughed out of court,'' Mr. Bernstein, the law professor, said. Lawyers who have represented Bendectin plaintiffs agree that it may be hard to bring new lawsuits. ''Unless there is new evidence supporting the causal relationship between Bendectin and birth defects, lawyers are going to be reluctant to bring cases because they will fear that judges won't allow their experts on the stand,'' said Michael Gottesman, a Georgetown law professor who argued for the Bendectin plaintiffs before the Supreme Court. Barry Nace, a Washington lawyer  who has represented close to 200 Bendectin families, said the lawsuits were generally hopeless. ''You might say that this is the safest drug in terms of litigation,'' Mr. Nace said. ''It's judicial door-slamming -- they make it so hard for plaintiffs to win these cases that it almost doesn't matter what you say.'' As for the drug's safety, Mr. Nace said, ''In my mind, there is no question that Bendectin causes birth defects.'' He added that every time he saw a young person with missing fingers or a shortened arm or club feet, he thought of the drug. ''I want to walk up to them and say, 'Did your mother take Bendectin?' '' he said.
Such disputes between commercial interests and researchers have become more common as drug companies increasingly use independent scientists to test new drugs. Immune Response hopes to get F.D.A. approval for the vaccine within two years. David Korn, senior vice president of the Association of American Medical Colleges and an expert on financial conflicts between researchers and industry, said such disputes were rarely made public and rarely involved so much money. He would  not speculate on the outcome. ''We are now getting into an era when the commercial entanglements for science are getting so common and complicated that I think it's time for the scientific community to have guidelines and to define the limits beyond which behavior is not tolerated,'' Dr. Korn said. Under the contract between the researchers and the company, either party could demand arbitration of  unresolved disputes. Immune Response demanded that the authors not publish their paper,  sought arbitration and asked for $7 million to $10 million if the investigators published the article as they had written it. The company also withheld some of the data, so the researchers had perhaps only 90 percent of the amount collected, usually not enough to publish a paper.
Rudolph Silas, the lawyer for the Rogerses, said his clients also were struggling to live normal lives. Mr. Silas said both couples were angry with Dr. Nash but not with one another. ''The Fasanos are a little saddened that they are parting with a child, and the Rogerses are delighted that they are receiving a child,'' he said. Unlike Mrs. Fasano, Mrs. Rogers did not become pregnant after the in vitro procedures. Both women have tried for years to conceive. A study conducted by the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Society for Reproductive Medicine found that in 1996, 64,000 attempts at assisted reproduction were made nationally, mostly through in vitro fertilization, resulting in 20,659 births. A study by the State Health Department documented that 5,741 attempts at in vitro fertilization had been made in New York State in 1995, though the success rate could not be determined. The figures do not include cases of artificial insemination.
For the time being, Boisselier told me, the couple wanted to remain anonymous: ''Even their neighbors, friends and family don't know they're doing this.'' The family trusted her to represent their story -- all the details about them here were provided by her -- without revealing their identity. The couple weren't Ralians themselves, she said; far from it. They ''went to church every Sunday'' and were well known in their community. ''You have to understand, they are still grieving. It's hard for them to talk about the baby.'' But what, or who, I wondered, did they think they would be getting, if by chance the Ralians succeeded in growing another embryo from one of the dead boy's cells? ''Well, you see, if they just have another child, it will be a different one,'' Boisselier said matter-of-factly. ''And they say this child was unique. He was taken from us because of some malpractice at the hospital. He should be around us laughing and so on. He deserves to live again. And through cloning, there is a way for this genetic code to express itself so he can laugh and play and become whoever he was meant to become.''
Last year, diabetes was the sixth-leading cause of death in New York City, although city health officials said that the number of people who die from diabetes is probably underestimated. ''We don't use the word epidemic lightly,'' said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the city's health commissioner. ''This data gives us a remarkable sense of the diversity and disparity between rich and poor in the city,'' he added. ''Of all diseases New Yorkers suffer, diabetes and H.I.V. have the greatest disparities of race and class.'' In the city, 12.2 percent of Hispanics have diabetes, as do 10.8 percent of non-Hispanic blacks. Whites who are not Hispanic have the lowest rate -- 5 percent -- and Asians are second to last, with 6.8 percent. The Bronx leads the city in diabetics, with 11.5 percent of residents having the illness, while 4.6 percent of Staten Island residents have it. Dr. Frieden said the city would undertake an aggressive effort against the increase in diabetes rates. He has made addressing chronic diseases a focus of his department since he was appointed last year.
The study's findings have been released in two reports. The first came two years ago when the estrogen-plus-progestin part of the study was prematurely shut down because of data showing an increased risk of heart attacks, strokes and breast cancer among women taking the hormone combination. Over the next 12 months, prescriptions that had once soared -- to 91 million in 2001 -- nose-dived. Sales of hormones overall fell 38 percent while sales of Prempro, the popular mix of estrogen and progestin that was the subject of the study, fell 74 percent, according to a study published this year in The Journal of the American Medical Association. Other research commissioned by drug companies showed that 18.5 million women used hormone therapy in 2002, but that had dropped to 7.6 million by January 2004. Leonard Wood, president of Multi-sponsor Surveys Inc. of Princeton, N.J., a private research firm, said that sales used to be equally divided between menopausal women and older women hoping for anti-aging benefits. ''What you're left with now is women experiencing significant problems with menopause,'' he said.
''All commissioners learn that they can have too many initiatives,'' Dr. Peck said. ''You can dilute your effort.'' Mr. Vodra, the former F.D.A. counsel, noted that Mr. McClellan's plans could be thwarted by the issue of money. ''The real issue is the challenge that anybody in this administration faces in trying to make do with less and less money,'' he said. ''At some point, you can't do the job.'' Then again, maybe he will. ''He's got a good connection at the White House; he knows Bush personally,'' Mr. Vodra said. ''So he's got access. From that standpoint, the F.D.A. is probably better situated than other agencies.'' SCIENTIST AT WORK: MARK B. MCCLELLAN
Large universities have always paid lip service to the importance of undergraduate education, but when they make hiring and promotion decisions, ''publish or perish'' generally rules. Weak teachers who publish in top journals often win promotions and tenure; prize-winning teachers whose publications are not deemed first-rate are often refused tenure. In recent years, many universities have added freshmen seminars so that incoming students can study with full professors in small classes as well as in large lecture halls. Some universities have created research programs where undergraduates can work side by side with professors and graduate students. Other universities have added centers where professors can burnish their teaching skills. Still others are re-examining their undergraduate programs to see how they might be improved. At Yale, a committee appointed by its president, Richard C. Levin, to study undergraduate education recommended last spring that the college offer more small classes for freshmen and sophomores, make more use of the university's professional school faculty in undergraduate education and expand its faculty.
''As soon as you tell people to eat supplemental foods, people think there are free calories and there are not,'' said Frank Sacks, professor of cardiovascular disease prevention at the Harvard School of Public Health. This is a particularly American way of thinking about food, said Greg Critser, author of ''Fat Land: How Americans Became the Fattest People in the World.'' ''The Europeans don't have this mentality,'' Mr. Critser said. ''There's more a culture of the enjoyment of food, not just the amount of food. The problem is that behind whatever diet is in ascent in this country, the background noise is one and the same: a license to gluttony.'' According to a survey of 1,182 people conducted in December for LowCarbiz, a new publication tracking the boom, 8.3 percent of respondents said they were on a low-carb diet and 20 percent said they were not on a diet but had been cutting back on high-carbohydrate foods.
''Just because we can do something doesn't mean that we should or we must,'' Dr. Fritz said. But single women like Ms. Drake, who view egg freezing as a reproductive insurance policy, have no such qualms. ''I would like to have children someday,'' she said, ''and I like knowing that I have taken advantage of everything currently available in order to give myself that option.'' Correction:  September 28, 2004, Tuesday  An article in Science Times last Tuesday about the growing market for human egg freezing to extend the years of fertility misidentified the clinic credited with having produced the first baby from a frozen egg in the United States. It was Reproductive Biology Associates in Atlanta, not Georgia Reproductive Specialists.
He added, ''Weight loss is not for the fainthearted.'' Of course, some people do lose weight and keep it off, often succeeding after repeated attempts to diet, said Dr. Rena Wing, a professor of psychiatry at Brown and a co-founder of the National Weight Control Registry. To be part of the registry, people must lose 30 pounds or more, by any means, including surgery, and keep the weight off for at least a year. If they regain, they remain in the registry, Dr. Wing said. ''Once you're in, you're in,'' she said. In 10 years, the registry has enrolled 4,700 people. Most gained back some weight, but very few gained back all they lost, Dr. Wing said. But there also are those who say they have tried and tried to reduce, only to regain the weight they so painfully lost. For many, weight loss is never really out of their minds. Often, the fatter the person, the greater the concern.
The reason is largely financial: Cancer is big business. Experts believe that cancer will soon overtake cardiovascular disease as the No. 1 killer in America as the population ages and cardio-care becomes more advanced. Cancer offers other financial incentives beyond the sheer flow of cases: the disease is still fairly immune from managed-care penny pinching, while at the same time, treatment advances have helped to streamline care. And there is constant excitement in the field: there are more than 300 cancer drugs in the pipeline. Offering Convenience And New Technology Much of the activity involves the opening of outpatient clinics, which are starting to flourish across the country as new technologies and changing medical economics allow patients to have chemotherapy and radiation treatments without staying overnight in a hospital. Continuum Health Partners, which runs Beth Israel and St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, has built the new outpatient center at Union Square, and beefed up its breast cancer program at St. Luke's. It has poached several doctors from other, far more prestigious cancer centers to run many of its programs, and has spent over $400,000 last year on cancer advertising campaigns.
The study involves 3,000 Long Island women, half of whom were diagnosed with breast cancer during the same one-year period. Some participants have permitted the collection of dust, water and soil from their homes and yards. The National Cancer Institute said the study's findings would be released within the next several months. Dr. Clare B. Bradley, the commissioner of Suffolk's Department of Health Services, said the Stellman study ''doesn't close the book on these issues.'' ''It is another study that didn't show an association in that instance,'' she said. ''I am sure we will learn more from other studies moving forward.'' Suffolk County is currently preparing to seek bidders for an epidemiological study of abnormally high breast cancer rates among women under age 55 on the South Fork and in the Riverhead and Westhampton Beach areas. At the same time, the Stellman study has raised concerns among the Long Island groups about other studies, part of the Long Island breast cancer project, that have yet to be completed. ''I am starting to become very leery of these studies,'' said Geri Barish of Baldwin, the president of One in Nine, a breast cancer group. ''I only hope they are doing them in enough depth to get good results. There is something out there we are eating and ingesting. I can't believe we are this far down the road and we still haven't come up with any good answers.''
Since it is impossible to pluck transplanted islet cells from a mouse's pancreas, the researchers slipped the new cells into one animal's kidneys. The cells would secrete insulin, just as they would if they were in the pancreas, controlling the diabetes. That way, they could later remove the kidney and take out the islet cells with it. That, at least, was the plan. At first, the experiment seemed to be a huge success -- the mice were cured of their diabetes. ''We were very proud of ourselves,'' Dr. Faustman said. Then the scientists removed the kidneys containing the islet cells. To their astonishment, it made no difference -- the animals still made their own insulin and no longer had diabetes. ''I said, 'Oh no -- how could this have happened?' '' Dr. Faustman said. ''We moped around.'' Finally, it occurred to them that maybe the experiment was not a failure. Maybe the islet cell transplant was not necessary because once the scientists blocked the underlying disease, the pancreas could regenerate its own islet cells.
What was clear, too, was that the full implication of tinier, airborne spores had not been thought through; early hints, like the P Street worker, had become missed opportunities rather than signal flares suggesting that more testing might be needed. In Atlanta, it would be another week and a half before the C.D.C. opened what turned out to be a very prescient e-mail -- a warning from Canadian researchers, sent Oct. 4, that tests had shown that anthrax spores could leak through envelopes. Dr. Richardson has no illusions that an earlier grasp of the dangers of the Daschle anthrax could have kept Mr. Richmond or the three other infected Brentwood workers from getting sick; they had already been exposed. But it might have meant faster diagnosis and faster treatment. With physicians on the alert, the words ''I work for the postal service'' would have opened doors and minds in doctors' offices everywhere.
About 16,000 cases of Lyme disease are reported each year to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, making it the most common disease carried by insects or arachnids. The agency also says the true number of cases is almost certainly far higher. Q. How do the ticks infect people? A. About three-quarters of the people who get the disease never spot the tiny ticks, which tend to hide in the hair, groin and armpits and at the back of the knees. But people who do spot the ticks have a good chance of avoiding the disease. Only about 1 percent of deer ticks are actually infected, and the infections are most often transmitted by the nymph-stage ticks that are most common from May to September and peak in June and July. Ticks are slow feeders, so if they are spotted and removed within 72 hours after they make contact, Lyme disease can usually be avoided.
According to the NPD Group, a research firm, the percentage of Americans who followed low-carb diets like Atkins, South Beach or the Zone fell to 4.6 percent in September from 9 percent in January. Over the same period, the number of products in the low-carb category doubled. AS a pioneer of all things low-carb, Atkins Nutritionals is taking some of the biggest financial hits. Formed in 1989 to sell products based on the diet philosophy of Dr. Robert C. Atkins, the business ramped up quickly after news articles ignited interest in low-carb eating. Atkins licenses its name to companies like Entenmann's and CoolBrands but also sells its own baked goods, snack products and frozen goods. Yet in the last six months, after two years of rapid growth, sales of Atkins products plunged 32 percent, according to Information Resources Inc. (The figure does not include data from Wal-Mart.) In May, the company had to write off $53 million of unsold and expired food, leading to a loss of more than $58 million for the second quarter and sending the company into financial turmoil, according to a Standard &amp; Poor's report.
In one study of people taking Namenda and Aricept combined for six months, 60 percent of patients either improved or did not deteriorate. ''I would say that physicians do believe these drugs are of benefit to patients with Alzheimer's,'' said Stephen M. Graham, senior director of clinical development at Forest. Spokesmen for the other companies with Alzheimer's drugs echoed that assessment in regard to their products, pointing to clinical studies demonstrating that they help patients. Wyeth is wagering that it can find more promising treatments for a nebulous, stealthy disease that does more than rob people of their health and well-being. It also steals some of their most precious memories. AT first blush, Robert Essner seems an unlikely flag bearer for a corporate assault on Alzheimer's. The son of a college professor, Mr. Essner studied humanities as an undergraduate and in graduate school, intending to teach college history. But after he graduated from the University of Chicago in 1971 with a master's degree in history, he soon realized that jobs in his field were scarce. He says he stumbled into pharmaceuticals by answering an ad in The Wall Street Journal.
URGENCY -- Everyone who has symptoms of a heart attack should call 911. Do not drive yourself to the emergency room. And do not dismiss symptoms because you think you are not at risk of a heart attack. Every minute of delay in getting treatment can mean death of heart muscle. Time is muscle, as cardiologists say. ABOUT THE SERIES -- They are the leading causes of illness and death in the United States today -- heart disease, cancer, stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes and Alzheimer's disease, in that order. And they have a lot in common. They are expensive -- together, they account for 25 percent of the nation's annual health care expenditures, said Jonathan Skinner, a health economist at Dartmouth College. They come in clusters -- accumulations of plaque in arteries lead to heart attacks but also can lead to strokes and predispose to Alzheimer's disease. Diabetes can lead to heart disease, stroke and even cancer. Smoking can lead to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as well as cancer and heart disease, which in turn predisposes to Alzheimer's.
''Here was a one-time competitive power-lifter who looked to me like a concentration camp refugee,'' said his wife, Kathy, who almost divorced him because of it. In those first two years, Mr. Sherman's libido disappeared, he was cranky, cold and flatulent all the time, and people suspected he had cancer or AIDS. ''Michael's skin hung off his body like you see on old men,'' she said. Paradoxically, old age was exactly what Mr. Sherman was shooting for. After reading that drastic calorie restriction slows the aging process in laboratory animals, he vowed to starve himself to stretch out his golden years into the 22nd century. If mice, geese and guppies could extend their life span 40 to 50 percent by eating 40 percent less than they wanted, why couldn't he? ''I'm definitely not one of these guys who says, 'Ooo, 18 more years and I can retire,' '' said Mr. Sherman, 46, who runs a biotech company in California near his Silicon Valley home. Now that he's acclimated to the diet and is somewhat bulked up from weight lifting, he looks more like a cyclist than a ''Survivor'' finalist. ''I feel very much like I did at 20,'' he said. ''Nothing but blue sky ahead of me.'' Mr. Sherman is part of a curious subculture of scientists, philosophers, futurists and assorted high-minded anorectics who believe that saying no to dessert (and sometimes to breakfast, lunch and dinner, too) will be the ticket to superlongevity.
To fix the problem, Dr. Schleifer wanted to recruit Dr. P. Roy Vagelos, the legendary Merck chairman, who was stepping down in November 1994. Dr. Vagelos was one of Dr. Schleifer's heroes, although they had never met. ''I just called him up,'' Dr. Schleifer recalls. The Nobel laureates on his board who knew Dr. Vagelos -- Alfred G. Gilman, Michael S. Brown and Joseph L. Goldstein -- also called him. Dr. Vagelos was skeptical about becoming involved in a tiny company he had never heard of. But after spending half a day at Regeneron, exploring its research, Dr. Vagelos agreed to become chairman in January 1995. ''Len is the C.E.O. -- there's no question about that,'' Dr. Vagelos said from his office in Bedminister, N.J. ''But we discuss almost everything. He has never made a decision I've disagreed with.'' After Dr. Vagelos joined the company, the most important task was focusing it on realistic targets. Treating progressive neurological diseases is one of the most difficult challenges in medicine because it is so hard to measure how different treatments work. ''It was an uphill battle,'' Dr. Vagelos said.
''Certainly we put an emphasis on research that cannot or is not being done elsewhere, which means embryonic stem cells,'' said Dr. J. Robert Galvin, the commissioner of Connecticut's Department of Public Health and chairman of its stem-cell advisory board. ''We want to create an atmosphere here where we are showing that this is welcome in Connecticut. We are operating under the belief that if we build it, they will come.'' More than 70 proposals were considered by scientific review boards before being submitted to the research advisory committee appointed by the state. One rejected proposal included a plan to clone a human embryo and use it to produce new stem cells. Dr. Galvin said that it was turned down because it received low marks from the review board, and that there was no vocal opposition to the idea of cloning embryos in principle. The committee made a special effort to finance scientists who are only beginning such research.
To the growing numbers of medical experts who preach evidence-based medicine -- the discipline that insists on proof that time-honored medical practices and procedures are actually effective -- there is no more inviting target than the annual physical. Checkups for people with no medical complaint remain the single most common reason for visiting a doctor, according to surveys by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In 2000, they accounted for about 64 million office visits, out of 823.5 million visits over all. At $120 to $150 per visit (and $2,000 or so for the gold-plated ''executive physical'' that many companies offer to top executives), that adds up to more than $7 billion a year. Yet in a series of reports that began in 1989 and is still continuing, an expert committee sponsored by the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, an arm of the Department of Health and Human Services, found little support for many of the tests commonly included in a typical physical exam for symptomless people.
By offering torcetrapib only in a combination pill, Pfizer would have forced patients taking other statins -- like Zocor, from Merck -- to switch to Lipitor if they wanted torcetrapib's benefits. In an interview last year, Dr. John L. LaMattina, Pfizer's top scientist, defended the company's plans, saying that the costs of testing torcetrapib alongside every statin would be prohibitive. Already, Pfizer says it is spending $800 million to develop torcetrapib. Pfizer is the world's largest drug maker, with sales of $51 billion and a profit of $8 billion last year. But Pfizer's plan angered cardiologists, who said the company appeared to be putting its profits ahead of patients' health. Not all patients can easily switch from one statin to another, and some patients cannot take statins at all. In June 2005, an article in The New England Journal of Medicine sharply criticized Pfizer's strategy. Besides complaints from doctors, Pfizer's plan faced commercial and legal challenges. Some lawyers questioned whether offering torcetrapib only with Lipitor might violate antitrust laws. Meanwhile, Lipitor, though still the top-selling drug in the United States with sales last year of $7.4 billion, is losing market share to Zocor, whose price has plunged since it lost patent protection last month. As a result, Pfizer risked damaging torcetrapib by tying it to Lipitor, said Richard T. Evans, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Company.
Mr. Miele's architecture partners occasionally joked that he was not in the business for the money, which to some extent was true. He had figured out how to live like a millionaire, he liked to say, even before he became one. He had worked four-day weeks for the last 20 years, spending long weekends with his family, sailing or iceboating on Bellport Bay and rebuilding cars. Mr. Miele had never thought of himself as a candidate for a heart attack -- even though both his parents had died of heart disease; even though his brother had had arteries unclogged; even though he himself was on hypertension medication, his cholesterol levels bordered on high and his doctor had been suggesting he lose weight. He was a passionate chef who put great store in the healthfulness of fresh ingredients from the Mieles' vegetable garden or the greengrocers in Park Slope. His breakfasts may have been a cardiologist's nightmare -- eggs, sausage, bacon, pastina with a poached egg -- but he considered his marinara sauce to be healthy perfection: just garlic, oil, tomatoes, salt and pepper.
The scientists found no difference in breast cancer incidence between the women who had had spontaneous or induced abortions and those who had not. Breast cancer incidence did not differ among women who had had an induced or spontaneous abortion before or after their first birth, or who had had no abortion at all. At the same time, the authors write, it is well established that a full-term pregnancy before age 35 does reduce the long-term risk for breast cancer. So it might be said that a pregnant woman who aborts increases her risk for breast cancer compared with what it would be if she carried the pregnancy to full term. Joel Brind, a professor of biology and endocrinology at Baruch College in Manhattan, found fault with the ways in which the study reported the data. Rather than reporting all of the abortions, he said, the researchers should have analyzed only those that occurred earliest in the study, allowing enough time after the abortion for breast cancer to develop.
The seven-year, $8 million study released last week was the largest and most comprehensive of its kind and was the cornerstone of the Long Island Breast Cancer Study Project, a $30 million federal effort that includes 12 studies in all. Results from the study released last week showed that exposure to four chemicals -- the pesticides DDT, chlordane and dieldrin and polychlorinated biphenyls, better known as PCB's -- did not result in a higher risk of breast cancer. The pesticides were widely used until they were banned in the 1970's, and PCB's are no longer used, as they once were, in electrical insulation. Marilie D. Gammon, an epidemiologist from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the principal investigator for the study, said she, too, had hoped for different findings. ''When you spend years on research, you always hope that you're on the right path,'' she said. ''What we can say now is that we've eliminated these four compounds, and now we need to systematically look at others.''
Other changes in the gene appear to be important in asthma. In a recent small study conducted at the University of Tennessee at Memphis, Dr. Julie A. Johnson, Dr. John J. Lima and their colleagues found that asthma patients who inherited from both parents the amino acid arginine in position 16 of the beta-2 adrenergic receptor protein responded best to the popular asthma drug albuterol. The drug increased the amount of air they could expel from their lungs by 18 percent. Those who inherited from either parent the chemical glycine in that position had just a 4.9 percent increase in the air they expelled. ''We've always known that some people respond better to albuterol,'' Dr. Liggett said. ''But we've never known why.'' Now the challenge is to tailor drug treatments to help those who have genetic variants that spell a poor prognosis. ''That,'' said Dr. Liggett, ''is the key to pharmacogenetics.''
''Science is very specific,'' said Linda Gillick, a founder of Ocean of Love, a support group for children with cancer in Ocean County, N.J. ''Sometimes you have to think outside the box.'' Barbara Brenner, executive director of the Breast Cancer Action Coalition, an advocacy group in San Francisco, said that at the very least people should look for the least toxic alternative to chemicals in common use that may cause cancer. Having had breast cancer twice, Ms. Brenner is impassioned by the cause. ''I have a firsthand experience, and I would do anything -- anything -- to keep someone else from having that experience,'' she said. Researchers, for their part, say they have not given up the quest. In their search for answers, they are trying a variety of methods. They are looking for reliable ways to detect environmental exposures and determine whether they are linked to cancer risk. They are studying the bewildering array of factors that can determine a chemical's effects on individual people. And they are looking at cancer statistics and asking whether there are blips in cancer rates that may point to an environmental cause.
We know now that breast cancer is an extremely complex disease that often spreads invisibly through the body when a breast lump is small. Cancers detected while small may not, in fact, be early. The aggressiveness of a cancer, not just the time when it is discovered, helps determine a woman's fate. What is particularly disconcerting about the current debate over mammography is the inability of biostatisticians to agree on what the data show. Although the use of mammograms for women under 50 has been controversial for decades, the new study questions their value even after 50. The investigators in The Lancet gave weight to two studies, in Canada and in Malmo, Sweden, that are among the most skeptical about mammography. There are others with different results, and uncertainty will persist. What should women and their doctors do as we await more conclusive data? Here is my current strategy. For women under 50 -- those for whom doubts about mammography's value are strongest -- I will continue to encourage individual choice, sharing the data with patients and letting them choose whether to have mammography.  For women 50 to 70, I will continue to recommend yearly mammography. There has simply been too much supportive data for too long to abandon the test now. But I will also be less willing to insist on mammograms for my patients who decline them. At some point, we must be willing to challenge our most basic assumptions about how we fight breast cancer.
The support-group hypothesis got its start with an observation by Dr. David Spiegel, a professor of psychiatry and behavioral science at the Stanford University School of Medicine. It was the late 1970's, when doctors and some behavioral scientists questioned the value of support groups for cancer patients, saying they could demoralize the patients. Dr. Spiegel had a different idea --  that groups might help women face death -- and that the period of facing terminal illness could be a period of emotional growth rather than decline. His study, he said, of 86 women, published in 1981, indicated that he was right: women in the groups were psychologically healthier. Around that time, Dr. Spiegel said, some doctors began saying that if patients had the right mental attitude, they could conquer cancer. ''That irritated me,'' he said. ''It was making patients feel guilty.'' So, Dr. Spiegel said, he decided to look back at his data, expecting to find that women lived no longer if they were in support groups than if they were not -- that their mental attitudes had no effect on their mortality. He saw instead, to his astonishment, that the women in his study who were in a support group lived 18 months longer than women who were not in a group. It was an unheard of  25 percent increase in their life spans.
All that important research he has done over the years -- the hepatitis test and vaccine, discovering the link between the virus and cancer -- it all depended on free and unlimited access to tissues. Blumberg says he doesn't think keeping patients in the dark is the way to get that access, and he has a unique point of reference: Ted Slavin. ''For somebody like Ted,'' he told me, ''who really needed that money to survive, it would have been wrong to say scientists could commercialize those antibodies but he couldn't. You know, if someone was going to make money off his antibodies, why shouldn't he have a say in that?'' Rebecca Skloot is the author of ''The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks,'' about the history, ethics and ownership of the first human cell line, which will be published by Crown next year. Editors' Note:  April 16, 2006, Sunday  An article on Page 38 of The Times Magazine today about human tissue includes an outdated reference to a lawsuit between Washington University and Dr. William J. Catalona over ownership of samples that he collected while employed there. On Friday, after the magazine had gone to press, the presiding judge ruled that the university ''owns all biological materials, including but not limited to blood, tissue and DNA samples'' that it stores.
For years, scientists have tried to come up with a plausible explanation for the placebo effect, and there are by now several contenders. One is classical conditioning: people who have experienced relief in medical settings or from ingesting a pill are primed, like Pavlov's dogs, to do the same again. Another is the release of endorphins: several studies have suggested that placebo pain relievers, at least, work by stimulating the brain's own analgesics. Still a third is that taking a placebo, especially if it is administered in an atmosphere of hope, relieves stress, which tends to aggravate the symptoms of placebo-sensitive conditions like asthma and hypertension. What all of these explanations have in common -- for they are certainly not mutually exclusive -- is the element of expectation, the promise of help on the way that can only be imparted by another human being. This kind of hope seems particularly relevant when you respect the distinction made by Dr. Howard M. Spiro, one of the most thoughtful writers on the placebo, between illness and disease: illness is what the patient feels; disease is what the doctor finds. Hope can help soften the experience of illness, though it cannot cure the underlying disease. Says Walter Brown: ''What we're really talking about with the placebo effect is the reduction of distress, the reassurance from being in a healing situation that you're finally in somebody's hands.''
When the French manufacturer, Roussel-Uclaf, and its parent company, Hoechst A.G. of Germany, refused to sell RU-486 here, American feminists organized picket lines outside Hoechst plants in this country and flew delegations to Paris to lobby company officials. It didn't work. By then, the Pope himself had denounced RU-486 as the ''pill of Cain -- the monster that cynically kills its brothers,'' and Hoechst feared boycotts of its products in the United States, where it does more than $6 billion worth of business. Moreover, Hoechst had particular reason to be touchy. It was one of three corporations that emerged from the breakup of I.G. Farben, the German chemical company that manufactured the cyanide gas, Zyklon B, for Nazi death camps, and Hoechst was sensitive to charges that it was again manufacturing what one right-to-life group called ''a human pesticide.'' In 1988, in the face of opposition from anti-abortion groups and Catholic bishops in France, Hoechst's subsidiary, Roussel, announced it would drop the drug entirely. Only after the French Health Minister declared RU-486 ''the moral property of women'' and ordered Roussel to bring it to market, did the company do so. In the United States, where abortion is a far more volatile issue, Hoechst seemed determined to stay out of the fray. ''We've been petitioned, we've been yelled at and we've been telephoned by everybody,'' Edward Norton, the spokesman for Hoechst-Roussel Pharmaceuticals of New Jersey, said in 1990. ''But our formal position hasn't changed in two years, and I don't expect it to change.''
IN October last year, the medical journal The Lancet published a study asserting that mammograms do not save lives and, in fact, cause many women to undergo painful and unnecessary treatments. Because this news directly challenged orthodox belief, the community of breast cancer experts and advocates was thrown into turmoil. Distinguished expert panels declared that their confidence in mammography was shaken. A prominent oncologist announced that she had no immediate plans to continue having routine mammograms. The president of a national breast cancer advocacy group publicly regretted the mammogram that diagnosed her own cancer years ago. In reality, there has always been disagreement over many aspects of breast-cancer screening. Not everyone is in favor of routine mammography for women under 50 because it is not as effective for younger women as it is for older women. What the Lancet study questioned was the practice of using mammography for any woman, young or old. Even the National Cancer Institute seemed to sway briefly while it reconsidered the evidence.
Prostate cancer screening also raises overdiagnosis questions, some researchers say. With the widespread use of the P.S.A. test, the incidence soared, from 143.3 cases per 100,000 in 1990, hitting a peak at 195.6 in 1992 and declining to 155.3 per 100,000 in 1998. By 1998, so many men had already been tested that fewer new cancers were being found. But the death rate from prostate cancer, which fell from 38.6 per 100,000 in 1990 to 32.3 per 100,000 in 1998, did not fall nearly so fast and at least part of the decline is due to improved treatment. ''I'm very very worried,'' Dr. Brawley said. Some experts, like Dr. Ian M. Thompson Jr., a urologist at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio, say that although some overdiagnosis of prostate cancer undoubtedly occurs the test is doing what it is supposed to do, finding cancers early and saving lives. He is heartened by the fact that the death rate is lower and says he sees more men with cancer that can be treated.
Dr. Verma and others involved in such research say it is virtually inconceivable that anyone treated using the crippled H.I.V. could get AIDS as a result. The gene carrier, which is known as a vector, not only is missing the H.I.V. genes that cause disease but also lacks the ability to replicate and spread in the body, they say. But some experts note that in rare instances, disabled viruses can recombine with genetic material from other viruses or from the person's own cells to regain the ability to replicate. And even if the actual risks are low, patients are likely to be afraid, and regulators cautious, about injecting patients with even a modified AIDS virus. ''It's a human pathogen that's caused a terrible pandemic, so one needs to be thoughtful about using it, even in a crippled form,'' said Dr. Eric Poeschla, an assistant professor of medicine at the University of California at San Diego.
In Dr. Henschke's study, doctors investigated more than 4,000 nodules in patients, finding about 400 early-stage cancers. ''This is not sticking a needle in a breast,'' Dr. Johnson said. ''It is sticking a needle in the chest, where it can collapse a lung.'' In some cases, that is followed by surgery to further evaluate a lump. ''How many people do we subject to needless evaluations?'' Dr. Johnson asked. It is not even clear, some researchers said, whether the patients in Dr. Henschke's study really would survive 10 years on average. The investigators used a statistical model to estimate how long patients would be expected to live after most had survived about three years. ''Ten years should be 10 years,'' Dr. Fishman said. ''It's being guesstimated out. Let's look in 10 years and see what happens.'' More definitive answers about the value of CT testing may come in a few years when another study, by the National Cancer Institute, is over. It randomly assigned its nearly 55,000 participants, smokers or former smokers, to have annual CT scans or, for comparison, chest X-rays. Based on previous studies, many researchers consider chest X-rays largely ineffective for early diagnosis of the cancer, so it can serve as a placebo control in this study.
Dr. Yury Verlinsky of the Reproductive Genetics Institute in Chicago, who also refuses these requests, said, ''If we make a diagnostic tool, the purpose is to avoid disease.'' But both doctors said they would not oppose sending families to other doctors who might consent. Today, parents increasingly use medical procedures to alter healthy bodies. In 2003, for example, the Food and Drug Administration granted approval to Eli Lilly to market human growth hormone for ''idiopathic short stature,'' or below-average height in children -- to make them taller, purely for social reasons. Theoretically, almost a half million American boys qualify for treatment. Why, some may argue, should choosing short stature be different? Mary Ellen Little, a New Jersey nurse with dwarfism, had her first daughter before a prenatal test for achondroplasia was available. For her second child, she had amniocentesis. ''I prayed for a little one,'' meaning a dwarf, she told me.
Dr. Julie L. Gerberding, an infectious disease expert noted for her work against AIDS and anthrax, will be the next director of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, administration officials said today. Dr. Gerberding, a 46-year-old physician and research scientist, would become the first woman to lead the centers, the nation's principal public health agency. Tommy G. Thompson, the health and human services secretary, will announce Dr. Gerberding's appointment on Wednesday at a ceremony at the agency's Atlanta headquarters, health officials at the administration said. Dr. Gerberding, who is now acting deputy director for science at the agency, helped lead the centers' efforts to investigate and contain the spread of deadly anthrax spores through the mail last year. As the centers began to understand the anthrax problem and developed a strategy for dealing with it, Dr. Gerberding assumed a larger role and spoke for the agency. The agency's previous director, Dr. Jeffrey Koplan, left the job on March 31. Dr. Koplan defended the centers' response to the anthrax crisis, saying the agency performed well in the unprecedented situation of a bioterrorist attack.
On a rainy afternoon in June, Eric Poehlman stood before a federal judge in the United States District Court in downtown Burlington, Vt. His sentencing hearing had dragged on for more than four hours, and Poehlman, dressed in a black suit, remained silent while the lawyers argued over the appropriate sentence for his transgressions. Now was his chance to speak. A year earlier, in the same courthouse, Poehlman pleaded guilty to lying on a federal grant application and admitted to fabricating more than a decade's worth of scientific data on obesity, menopause and aging, much of it while conducting clinical research as a tenured faculty member at the University of Vermont. He presented fraudulent data in lectures and in published papers, and he used this data to obtain millions of dollars in federal grants from the National Institutes of Health -- a crime subject to as many as five years in federal prison. Poehlman's admission of guilt came after more than five years during which he denied the charges against him, lied under oath and tried to discredit his accusers. By the time Poehlman came clean, his case had grown into one of the most expansive cases of scientific fraud in U.S. history.
Among critics of the study, Dr. Craig P. Cleveland, a Cincinnati clinician, said in a letter to the editor of the journal that it was saying in effect, ''Your tests are wrong and mine are right.'' Because diagnostic blood tests for Lyme are often inaccurate, the critics said, the study was not conclusive. Dr. Steere agreed that tests in some other laboratories were inaccurate but said his were not. And on the subject of prolonged antibiotic therapy, he said, ''I have been discouraged by what I have seen.'' He said he had had better success with medications aimed specifically at individual symptoms that persisted, like pain, depression or chronic fatigue. Taking the other side of the debate, Dr. Brian A. Fallon, an associate professor of clinical psychiatry at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, wrote of three long-term case studies of psychiatric disorders in a 1998 article in the journal Psychiatric Clinics of North America. It was titled ''The Underdiagnosis of Neuropsychiatric Lyme Disease in Children and Adults.''
As the debate grows among lawmakers, a quieter debate is taking place behind the counters of many drugstores. ''As far as being a health care professional, I don't think I should be injecting my moral values on other people,'' Rod Adams, a pharmacist at the Colorado Pharmacy in Denver, said in an interview last week. ''Obviously a morning-after pill is a personal choice that someone has to make. They've already made that choice when they come in here, and I don't think -- I'm not a counselor -- I don't really think that's my job.'' But Patty Levin, a pharmacist for 22 years who works at Wender &amp; Roberts in the north Atlanta suburb of Sandy Springs, said that she had never been asked to fill a prescription for the morning-after pill. ''I would be opposed to dispensing that particular product,'' she said. ''It's basically an early abortion, is basically what it is. I would just hand it to the other pharmacist here,'' she said, adding, ''If I'm not filling it, it doesn't involve me.''
Dr. Cobleigh said that the women the test determined had a high risk of recurrence would find it much easier to decide to undergo chemotherapy. But ''lower-risk women will still agonize,'' she said. She said she would give the test to all appropriate patients, if they could afford it. Dr. Nicholas Murray, senior lecturer at Southampton University in Britain, said the test did not really predict whether patients would benefit from chemotherapy; it helped, he said, to predict which patients would fail to benefit from tamoxifen. To use the test to decide who should get chemotherapy might make sense, he said, but ''it's a leap of faith.''
But Dr. Susan Hendrix, a gynecologist at Wayne State University and an investigator with the Women's Health Initiative, said that while she was shocked by the findings, she believed them and would use them to help women understand the risks of hormones. ''I'll say, 'There was a new study from the W.H.I. that looked at quality of life and it was not much better, even in younger women and women with moderate to severe hot flashes,' '' she said. Dr. Hendrix said one of her patients who was taking hormones and was reluctant to stop told her she just could not live without her hormone pills. Dr. Hendrix told her the risks: over five years, an additional one in 100 hormone users in the health initiative had a heart attack, a stroke, or developed breast cancer. Then she explained that the drugs' only benefits were for the temporary relief of symptoms of menopause. Finally, she asked her patient a painful question.
But will artificial blood work? The company is starting community notification for a clinical trial involving 20 medical centers, with 700 patients randomly assigned to receive either Ringer's solution or PolyHeme in an ambulance. The Army will be part of the study. Dr. Jenkins of the Air Force says he wants to participate, too. ''We're sure going to push for it,'' he said.
Mr. Beck said the study was not scientific. The adverse event reports, he said, say only that a drug may be associated with the side effect, not that it actually caused it. About that time, Dr. Richard Goodstein, vice president for scientific relations at Bayer, wrote an e-mail message to two dozen Bayer executives working on Baycol in the United States. He said that ''alleged cases'' of rhabdo caused by Baycol were coming into his office at a rate of about one a day. ''Many of the cases are ugly,'' he wrote, including reports of ''dialysis, long hospitalization, disability and two potentially related deaths.'' Dr. Goodstein continued, ''To me, it has never been an issue of, should-if-will we need to respond, but rather to whom, how, what?'' ''It will be too long a time until the potentially helpful results of new epidemiologic/scientific studies envisioned by Bayer World-Wide are completed,'' he wrote.
''In the regular doctor's office visit,'' Dr. Scott said, ''there is a socialization piece: 'Hi. How are you? How's the family?'Then there's the education, 'Are you taking your medications?' Then there's the hands-on piece where the doctor examines the patient's heart and lungs. Then there's the questions. And usually we answer them with our hand on the door. ''We usually deal with one thing, like your heart. We don't deal with other things like, 'How does your vision impact the fact that you can't draw up your insulin properly?' '' He decided that maybe patients could get the attention they needed if a doctor saw a group of them all at once. To see if the idea would work, he designed a pilot study involving 321 elderly patients with a variety of medical complaints. Each had chronic health problems and was constantly seeking medical attention, averaging more than one office visit a month.
''I see no reason why this study would change my opinion that having an abortion increases the risk about 30 percent over not having gotten pregnant in the first place,'' Dr. Brind said. ''I believe also that this particular study, were the data properly handled and reported, would have come up with a result in agreement with that.'' Dr. Michels said that most of the abortions occurred more than 10 years before the breast cancer diagnosis, and that analyzing only the earliest abortions made no difference in the results. But she acknowledged that Dr. Brind raised a crucial issue. ''In analyzing data,'' she said, ''we have to be careful what we are comparing and take account of whether a woman who has had an induced abortion misses out on the potential benefit she would have had if she had a full-term pregnancy. ''We did analyze the data keeping this issue in mind,'' Dr. Michels said, ''and we did not find that an incomplete pregnancy deprives a woman of the protection a full-term pregnancy would have conferred.''
But not long ago, only 30 percent of V.A. patients who should get the vaccine received it (the national average is 50 percent). The rude awakening came when the department showed individual teams of doctors and individual clinics and hospitals how often they were vaccinating and how their rates compared with those of other medical teams. ''It's pretty revealing to have the data,'' Dr. Perlin said. ''Absent the data, you think you are doing a pretty good job.'' Now 90 percent of V.A. patients who should get the vaccine do. ''By increasing the rate of pneumonia vaccination just for patients with emphysema, the V.A. saved 6,000 lives,'' Dr. Perlin said. The same strategy worked with beta blockers -- drugs, costing pennies a day, that should be given to nearly all heart attack patients within 24 hours of arriving at the hospital and should be prescribed when they leave. Nationwide, less than half who need these drugs get them. Yet beta blockers, which slow the heart rate, can prevent hospitalizations, prolong lives and save more than $6,000 per patient in hospitalization over five years.
Dr. Cohen has already used his technique to achieve 17 pregnancies. He stopped his work in 2001, however, when the drug agency notified him that he would need its approval. Research on the nuclear technique continues in other countries, mainly in South Korea and China.
A major question is how cancer cells seem clever enough to succeed in the many steps necessary to metastasize. Dr. Robert Weinberg, a professor of biology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is a leading proponent of a contested theory suggesting that a tumor cell turns on an embryonic program that allows a cancer cell to relocate. ''Over the last five years, it has become apparent that cancer cells don't cobble together all these different talents, but they resurrect a previously latent behavioral program,'' Dr. Weinberg said. He argues that a program, called the epithelial-mesenchymal transition, or E.M.T, is turned on in embryonic cells, allowing them to move to different parts of the body where they set up camp and build different types of tissue. According to Dr. Weinberg, these programs are turned off after embryonic development, but they are sometimes briefly turned on in wound-healing to build new tissue.
Ms. Howard soon learned that she was pregnant, and although her fianc may still be the father of her child, she doubts that he is. There is a father out there somewhere, but Ms. Howard doesn't know who he is and she isn't sure if her relationship with her fianc can stand the stress of raising another man's child. This is Laura Howard's pregnancy, Week 11. Ms. Howard is suing the doctor and trying to find out the medical history of the man whose donated sperm was placed in her body. The State Department of Public Health is investigating the incident, according to Norma Gyle, the department's deputy commissioner. Legal experts said they can't think of a precedent for the case, which has so many facets it could comprise an entire chapter in a law textbook. What rights and responsibilities does the biological father have? How will the decision by Ms. Howard not to take a morning-after-pill when the mistake was discovered affect her case? If her fianc leaves, will anyone help pay for the baby's expenses?
Catalona was committed to informing his patients: he provided detailed consent forms explaining the research and its risks, and his consent forms said, ''Your participation is voluntary, and you may choose not to participate in this research study or withdraw your consent at any time.'' He even sent a quarterly newsletter updating them on the studies. The problem was, Catalona and his patients saw things differently from his employer -- Washington University. Several years ago, Washington University took possession of the samples. The collection could be worth more than $15 million. In letters that surfaced in court, a Washington University official complained that Catalona gave free tissue samples to collaborators at a biotech company and that all the university gained in exchange for its support of Catalona was ''the potential for Catalona to get a publication,'' which it saw as ''unacceptable.'' (Catalona isn't business savvy: he never tried to patent his specific use of the P.S.A. test, which could have made millions.) The university invested millions of dollars in developing that collection, it said: money for freezers, lab technicians, the building where he stored them. Some of that money came from multimillion-dollar federal research grants that Catalona brought into the university; some came from his patients. But the university paid Catalona's salary and his health, malpractice and liability insurance; his contract said it owned his intellectual property. Therefore, the university argued, it owned those tissue samples.
The Dartmouth doctors sent samples from 27 patients they thought had pertussis to the state health departments and the Centers for Disease Control. There, scientists tried to grow the bacteria, a process that can take weeks. Finally, they had their answer: There was no pertussis in any of the samples. ''We thought, Well, that's odd,'' Dr. Kirkland said. ''Maybe it's the timing of the culturing, maybe it's a transport problem. Why don't we try serological testing? Certainly, after a pertussis infection, a person should develop antibodies to the bacteria.'' They could only get suitable blood samples from 39 patients -- the others had gotten the vaccine which itself elicits pertussis antibodies. But when the Centers for Disease Control tested those 39 samples, its scientists reported that only one showed increases in antibody levels indicative of pertussis. The disease center did additional tests too, including molecular tests to look for features of the pertussis bacteria. Its scientists also did additional P.C.R. tests on samples from 116 of the 134 people who were thought to have whooping cough. Only one P.C.R. was positive, but other tests did not show that that person was infected with pertussis bacteria. The disease center also interviewed patients in depth to see what their symptoms were and how they evolved.
By Monday afternoon, she had left us, though she was still alive. Pre-terminal, the doctors call it. It was not that she wasn't there or was unconscious. But she had gone to a place deep within herself, to some last redoubt of her being, at least as I imagine it. What she took in I will never know, but she could no longer make much contact, if, indeed, she even wanted to. I and the others who were at her side left around 11 p.m. and went home to get a few hours' sleep. At 3:30 a.m. on Tuesday, a nurse called. My mother was failing. When we arrived in her room, we found her hooked up to an oxygen machine. Her blood pressure had already dropped into a perilous zone and was dropping steadily, her pulse was weakening and the oxygen level in her blood was dropping. For an hour and a half, my mother seemed to hold her own. Then she began the last step. At 6 a.m., I called Nimer, who came over immediately. He stayed with her throughout her death.
Dr. Kaminetsky's practice is affiliated with a corporation called MDVIP, which he helped found. It processes the retainer fees, oversees the office's electronic capabilities and runs quality control to make sure the clerical staff members are courteous and make appointments with the promised alacrity. Nationwide about 250 medical practices and 100,000 patients have signed up with MDVIP and similar corporations, according to the professional society of concierge physicians, the Society for Innovative Medical Practice Design, founded in 2003. These doctors charge fees as high as $10,000 a year, depending on the services promised. The majority charge $1,500 to $2,000. Basic services consist of same-day or next-day appointments and 24-hour telephone access to the doctor. The most expensive may also promise the doctor will make home visits, deliver medications and accompany patients on visits to other doctors. In Dr. Kaminetsky's practice of three doctors all the patients are concierge patients. Retired patients are sometimes enrolled by their children, who may also cover the retainer fees. About 10 percent of the patients are seen free of charge, ''scholarship patients'' who the doctors have decided are in real need of the extra services and whose yearly retainer fees are waived. Because the practice has a 96 percent annual retention rate, its waiting list of several hundred names moves up slowly.
A less detailed version of this document will form a major portion of the final report of the board, which is due at the end of August. The working scenario will also be included in an appendix to that report. It is not the whole story; it focuses on the stuff Columbia was made of and how it failed, not on the role of the people on the ground or on board. The final report will provide that additional context. It will also explore management lapses that, according to investigators, led NASA to play down the threat from foam. Much of the information presented in the working scenario has been released in bits and pieces by NASA and at board briefings and hearings over the course of the investigation. But the document is the fullest telling to date of the physical problems that brought the Columbia down. What follows is the distillation of the board's work, supplemented with information from NASA and other sources.
But doctors cannot tell which early cancers are dangerous and which are not -- and 31,500 American men die of prostate cancer each year, making it the second leading cause of cancer deaths in men. It may be, experts on prostate cancer say, that very aggressive cancers are unstoppable, whenever they are discovered, and others that grow slowly may not be dangerous. Yet once a tumor is found, doctors and their patients usually feel obliged to treat it, with radiation or surgery, which leaves many men incontinent and impotent. Dr. Black tells of a doctor at a nearby medical center who took time to discuss the risks and benefits of the P.S.A. test on three separate office visits with one of his longtime patients. The man ended up not having the test. But shortly afterward he developed malignant prostate cancer and successfully sued the doctor. In July 1999, a jury awarded him $1.5 million, the largest jury award in the county superior court in a decade.
Two studies paid for by drug companies reported last year that about a quarter of women who quit using hormones had returned. ''I quit cold turkey like lots of women and oh, my God, was that a mistake,'' said Peggy Vincent, a retired midwife from Oakland, Calif. Ms. Vincent, 61, said it is hard to understand how disruptive and frightening a severe hot flash can be unless you have experienced one. ''It wasn't 'hot flashes,' '' she said. ''It was barn burners.'' Some doctors have reported renewed requests for the drugs. ''I've had more requests in the last month than in the prior three,'' said Dr. Margaret Polaneczky of New York Weill Cornell Center. Dr. Inga Zilberstein, a Manhattan obstetrician and gynecologist, said as many patients were asking for hormones as were shunning them. Dr. Zilberstein and other practioners contend that the rebound is being driven in part by confusion over alternatives.
Colon cancer progresses through recognizable phases. It changes from a tiny polyp, or adenoma -- a benign overgrowth of cells on the wall of the colon -- to a larger polyp, a pre-cancerous growth that, Dr. Vogelstein said, looks ''mean,'' and then to a cancer that pushes through the wall of the colon. The final stage is metastasis, when the cancer travels through the body. ''This series of changes is thought to occur in most cancers, but there aren't many cancers where you can get specimens that represent all these stages,'' Dr. Vogelstein said. With colon cancer, pathologists could get tissue by removing polyps and adenomas in colonoscopies and taking cancerous tumors in surgery. Colon cancer was even more appealing for such a study because there are families with strong inherited predispositions to develop the disease, indicating that they have cancer genes that may be discovered. So Dr. Vogelstein and his colleagues set out to search for genes ''any way we could,'' Dr. Vogelstein said. Other labs found genes, too, and by the mid-1990's, scientists had a rough outline of what was going on.
Last night George W. Bush had one of those rare opportunities a president gets to take a bold step that might define his administration. Instead, he ducked. In a national television address, the president said he was supporting federal funding for stem cell research. But he added restrictions so rigid that they may constitute a near-ban. After a long prelude, describing his moral debate over a decision and all the terrible diseases that stem cell research might help cure, Mr. Bush endorsed federally funded research only in cases where the cells were extracted from human embryos in the past and made to grow their own colonies, or lines. There is a very limited number of lines of these cells, not enough to provide the diversity scientists need. Furthermore, the existing lines are not necessarily immortal. Scientists believe that some may eventually stop providing stem cells and need to be replaced.
Now, he said, more than 25 training programs turn out about 50 specialists a year. Despite exhaustive testing to find a cause, many miscarriages go unexplained. This was the case for Ms. McCreary and for Isabel Letsch, 25, of Baltimore, who has charted the reproductive history of her three miscarriages after failed fertility treatments in a Web log, Isabel's Journal. ''It's just a big mystery,'' Ms. Letsch said. ''My doctor has given up hope and told me it's because I'm overweight.'' No data support that diagnosis, she said, adding: ''I know I can get pregnant. I've never got as far as to see a heartbeat. We know it implants. It just doesn't develop any further. We're just kind of frustrated.'' Ms. McCreary said she received conflicting advice from doctors in the same practice. One advised trying in vitro fertilization with pre-implantation genetic diagnosis. Another expressed skepticism about I.V.F. for women who repeatedly miscarry.
Dr. Thomas B. Okarma, president and chief executive of the Geron Corporation of Menlo Park, Calif., a leader in embryonic stem cells, said his company hoped to ask the Food and Drug Administration to approve a clinical trial in 2005, using cells derived from embryonic stem cells to treat spinal cord injuries. Such treatment has restored mobility in some paralyzed rats, he said. ''We've gone way beyond the academic world and where most of the pundits think the field is,'' Dr. Okarma said. Geron does not do therapeutic cloning but uses human embryonic stem cells derived from embryos left over from fertility clinics, created by the fertilization of egg by sperm. Dr. Goldman, who once collaborated with the Geron Corporation, said he doubted that a trial could begin that soon, saying it would be ''irresponsible'' to try. There are ethical objections to work with human embryonic stem cells, because it involves the destruction of embryos, which some people view as human life. Therapeutic cloning is also controversial because, critics say, it involves creation of life solely for research or treatment. Supporters argue that therapeutic cloning is distinct from reproductive cloning, which even many of them find objectionable.
A NATION CHALLENGED Two regular contributors to Science Times, Dr. Abigail Zuger and Dr. Sandeep Jauhar, were among the physicians caught up in the aftermath of Tuesday's terrorist attacks. Dr. Zuger spent much of the day in the Emergency Room at Bellevue Hospital. Dr. Jauhar began his day there, and then moved to the disaster site. Here are their stories.
That disappointment comes at a time when some experts have been questioning the value of screening tests for other cancers, including breast and ovarian cancers in women, prostate cancer in men, and lung cancer in both sexes. A key issue is whether the tests are finding a lot of tumors that would never become dangerous but cannot be distinguished from tumors that could become deadly, thereby causing many patients to undergo the risk of surgery, radiation or chemotherapy for no good reason. Each test has adherents who believe that early detection does far more good than harm, and critics who are not so sure. This debate underscores the importance of subjecting screening tests to rigorous trials to find whether they help reduce cancer mortality. Many tests have been adopted mostly on faith. But even clinical trials cannot resolve all questions. Mammography has been endorsed by the federal government on the basis of seven large clinical trials, but scientists argue over whether flaws in those studies invalidate the results or merely weaken them.
But with a $1 billion endowment -- well below Harvard's $17.5 billion -- N.Y.U. must be more creative, and Dr. Sexton is trying to turn its part-time faculty into a special attraction rather than a perceived weakness. The university also has a growing number of master teachers, full-time faculty members with contracts of one to three years who earn more than adjuncts but whose status is only slightly higher. But in an academic culture where tenure is the grand prize, Dr. Sexton is struggling with how to accord them status. He said he would find other ways to reward and honor them and assure them of academic freedom. He received little opposition in introducing a new category of professor at the law school but may face more now. Clifford J. Jolly, chairman of N.Y.U.'s faculty council for the last year, said that faculty members were still in a wait-and-see mode because they had Dr. Sexton's philosophical ideas but no concrete proposal.
Also, its findings were not an anomaly. Other similar studies of hormone therapy found the same protection from heart attacks among women who took the drugs. And it and the other studies agreed with the Women's Health Initiative on other risks and benefits of the hormones: a slight increase in the risk of breast cancer, blood clots and strokes and a slight decrease in the risk of broken bones and colon cancer. On the other hand, the Women's Health Initiative results were in accord with similar studies of women who already had heart disease. Those studies also found that hormone therapy led to more heart attacks, not fewer. As soon as he saw the results from the Women's Health Initiative, said Dr. Barry R. Bloom, dean of the Harvard School of Public Health, ''I knew that public health had a big problem.'' ''The dilemma posed by this issue is very profound and quite important,'' Dr. Bloom said. ''Is there an intrinsic flaw in either of these approaches?''
A recently discovered genetic mechanism appears to play an important role in the development of cancer, scientists are reporting today, in findings that may eventually lead to new ways to diagnose and treat the disease. The discoveries ''change the landscape in cancer genetics,'' Dr. Paul S. Meltzer of the National Human Genome Research Institute wrote in a commentary in the journal Nature, which is publishing three papers on the findings today. Other scientists cautioned that the new findings merely added detail to the already complex picture of how tumors arise and grow. The findings concern micro-RNA's, which are tiny snippets of genetic material that help dampen the activity of other genes. The material was discovered in the early 1990's, in the roundworm, and in recent years scientists have been finding them everywhere, including at least 200 in human cells. The mere discovery has altered views of RNA's importance in regulating the working of genes. The previous view was that genes, which are made of DNA, are the recipes for protein, which make up much of the structure of cells and perform most of the functions. In this scheme, RNA, a sort of chemical cousin of DNA, acted mainly as a messenger dispatched by DNA to carry the recipe for a protein to the cell's protein-making machinery.
Carmen J. Pirollo expected his latest attempt to lose weight would take a while. At 5 feet 11 inches, he wanted to weigh 180 pounds, down from 260. A veteran dieter -- ''I've lost and gained a whole person in my lifetime'' -- he knew it would not be easy. But while Mr. Pirollo, a 55-year-old sixth-grade teacher in Haddon Heights, N.J., says he is healthy, he worries that his excess weight might take a toll on his health. And, of course, he wants to look good. ''I'm an American,'' he says. ''We live in a society where people have to be beautiful.'' Who should pay for people like Mr. Pirollo to try to lose weight? For decades the answer has almost always been the patients themselves. That soon may change. At a meeting in November, Medicare's advisers will assess the safety, efficacy and cost of one increasingly popular method of weight loss -- surgery -- as a first step in a new policy that could lead to the use of federal money to cover a range of other obesity treatments.
The problem with this, as far as American social conservatives are concerned, is that it treats symptoms rather than what they see as the underlying disease: an outlook that is focused on the individual at the expense of family and society. Their ultimate goal is not a number -- the percentage of abortions or unintended pregnancies -- but an ideal, a way for people to think and behave. As Mohler says of the Dutch approach in particular: ''The idea is to completely sever the sex act from reproduction, and then train teens to do it. It treats sex as a morally meaningless act. I find it profoundly anti-humanistic.'' While Americans as a whole don't hold such a dark view of comprehensive sex education, many do feel there's something wrong with a strictly clinical approach. This ambivalence, according to Sarah Brown of the National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy, gets to the root of the problem and may explain the numbers. ''One of the things I'm most often asked is why the abortion and unintended pregnancy rates are so much lower in Europe,'' she says. ''People talk about the easy access to contraception there, but I think it's really a matter of the underlying social norms. In Europe, these things are in the open, and the only issue is to be careful. Here in the U.S., people are still arguing about whether it's O.K. to have sex.''
Debbie Basile, from Babylon, was also pleased with the meeting, but added: ''In general, I'm tired of all the rhetoric. Scientists know that only 30 percent of breast cancer is attributable to known risk factors and the other 70 percent is up for grabs, so it's a stalling tactic when officials say that you have to wait for scientific evidence to 'prove' there's a link to something in the environment.'' Elsa Ford, of the Brentwood-Bayshore coalition, voiced her own reservations. ''Looking only at the big picture diluted relevant information about environmental exposure,'' she said. ''It's like the man who finds a conch shell and asks, 'Where's the sea?' '' Many of the coalitions have developed their own community maps. Karen Miller, of Huntington, recently obtained a grant from Hewlett Packard to finance her town's mapping project. ''We can't wait for science,'' she said. ''Long Islanders are ready for hard information. They've been asking questions about cancer and the environment for a dozen years, and they have the right to know. This is not about running away; there's no place to run. It's about beginning to clean up the process.''
I got a tour of the place from an uncharacteristically saturnine Ralian named Michel. We walked from one dark and chilly exhibit room to the next, throwing on the lights as we went. Michel explained that ''primitive man,'' which is to say everyone who lived before the age of genomics and of Ral, ''did not understand the chemical nature of life. They didn't understand that the DNA is the soul.'' Michel permitted himself a little cackle at primitive man's expense. ''They didn't understand that reincarnation can only happen through science -- through cloning -- so they imagined some, some. . . . '' He paused, searching for the right term of opprobrium. ''Theology.'' Ral's office is next door to the museum, and I was escorted there by Sylvie Chabot, the angular, henna-haired business consultant who handles most of the Ralians' publicity. We had to walk through a set of electronic doors that hissed shut behind us, then remove our shoes and wait for the second set of automatic doors to open.
And so P. was transferred. A few days later, after his operation, he died. When I was in medical school, internal-medicine residents used to joke about never calling a surgeon. Their message, however facetious, was that if you sent your patient to a surgeon, he would want to operate. That, after all, was what surgeons did -- and the more challenging the case, the better. Any second-guessing about surgery was supposed to be done by the referring physician. Times are changing. In a survey a few years ago, 63 percent of cardiac surgeons in New York State said that because of report cards, they were accepting only relatively healthy patients for coronary-bypass surgery. Fifty-nine percent of cardiologists confirmed that it had become harder to find a surgeon to operate on their most severely ill patients. ''Hospitals getting cited are turning down high-risk patients,'' Dr. Eugene Grossi, a professor of surgery at N.Y.U. School of Medicine, recently told me. ''Some of the so-called best hospitals are only doing the most straightforward cases.''
Some scientists say the gene chips may be too expensive and difficult to use in the average clinic. But others say the tests will come down to a few hundred dollars apiece. While powerful computers may be needed to find the patterns initially, once they are found a sample can be analyzed on a laptop. And the number of genes that need be tested may also shrink. Merck started out analyzing 25,000 genes but found that only 70 were needed to predict breast cancer outcome. ''In the end these will become relatively simple tests that can be done locally,'' said Dr. James Downing, chairman of pathology at St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, who said doctors might be able to eliminate some other tests to compensate for the costs. Children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, for instance, already undergo several separate tests costing about $1,000 to help subclassify the cancer to help determine therapy, he said. But in a newly published study involving 327 patient samples, one of the largest DNA chip studies to date, Dr. Downing and colleagues showed that the genetic patterns could classify the cancers as accurately as all the other tests combined, if not more so.
So he pushed on. When he discovered that one doctor had missed 10 cancers in the space of 18 months, he fired him. Over the next two years, he fired two others who were missing more than their share of tumors. He then reassigned eight doctors who were not reading enough films to stay sharp -- or for the data to show how sharp they were. ''I had to assume they might be dangerous,'' he explains. The immediate result was sensational headlines and much in-house angst. But today, Dr. Adcock's team is missing one-third fewer cancers and has achieved what experts say is nearly as high a level of accuracy as mammography can offer. ''Every mammography program in the country should be doing something like this,'' says Dr. Robert A. Smith, the American Cancer Society's screening chief. Very few do. In fact, what Dr. Adcock has created is a mirror image of American mammography as usual -- an industry that remains deeply troubled 10 years after Congress set out to clean it up through its own experiment in medical regulation.
The resulting increase in adverse drug reactions has been particularly striking among patients being treated for common health problems ranging from hypertension, heart disease and diabetes to cancer and gastroesophageal reflux, as well as a host of other maladies. Last October, The Journal of the American Medical Association reported that adverse drug events are a major cause of serious illness in the country, especially among the elderly. Dr. Daniel Budnitz, a physician at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the lead author of the study, discovered that individuals 65 years or older were more than twice as likely to be treated in an emergency room for adverse drug events and nearly seven times as likely to require hospitalization as individuals younger than 65. Almost all of those expensive hospitalizations were due to unintentional overdoses and, of those, two-thirds were due to toxic effects from a small set of drugs well known to require regular monitoring to prevent such mishaps.
Many of Sloan-Kettering's most prominent doctors will help oversee the development of the center, and patients whose cancers are diagnosed there may be referred to Sloan-Kettering for drug trials or other treatments, something that many Harlem patients can ill afford and know little about. The move may reflect Dr. Varmus's interest in applying more of the hospital's research toward clinical care for a broader swath of patients. Easy access to good care is crucial to early diagnoses of cancer, both doctors said. Late detection is the No. 1 reason that people die from treatable forms of cancer, and studies have shown that many forms of cancer are detected later in blacks than in whites. For instance, in a 20-year study of more than 700 women in Harlem that ended in 1986, only 30 percent had survived breast cancer five years after diagnosis, compared with national rates closer to 65 percent, Dr. Freeman said. Looked at another way, the study found that only 6 percent of the women had early-stage, or the most treatable, cancers. Since the center's inception, that rate has risen to 40 percent, Dr. Freeman said.
Sure, scientists could compare an experimental drug with a proven standard drug, but this would require a much larger sample and would expose more people to risks of the new drug. That's because research results differ more widely between the use of placebos and active drugs, than between two active treatments. Some argue that it is unethical to conduct a clinical trial that cannot satisfactorily answer the basic question of safety and efficacy. For many, this means a placebo control. So researchers are seeking optimal study design and definitive data. Research subjects are hoping for some benefit, and society is demanding new and better treatments. The result? A balancing act called biomedical research. CASES
As a result, doctors often rely on reports issued by manufacturers called product performance reviews to assess devices. In such reports, data about a model of defibrillator, say, is presented in terms of its ''survival'' rate. That number is derived from the number of units implanted, reduced by the number removed for any reason. A defibrillator emits an electrical jolt to restore a chaotically beating heart to normal rhythm. Such reports, experts said, suffer from numerous problems. Frequently, doctors do not send failed devices back to a manufacturer unless a patient death or injury is involved, and even then they may not do so. In addition, heart devices are typically not examined after a patient dies to see if its possible failure might have contributed to the death. Such reviews do not require an autopsy. ''The weak point is the fact that this is a passive system that does not mandate that physicians return all devices or report them to F.D.A. so it is the minority of devices that are returned,'' said Dr. N.A. Mark Estes, a professor of medicine at Tufts University.
''I would discourage it,'' he said. ''I think it's a great sport and if they wanted to spar to stay in shape, I think it would be great. If they wanted to go pro, I'm not sure I'd let them.'' FOR THE RECORD E-mail: Fuchs@nytimes.com
But we do understand some of the simplest relationships, like the zero-sum relationship: that if you eat a lot of meat you're probably not eating a lot of vegetables. This simple fact may explain why populations that eat diets high in meat have higher rates of coronary heart disease and cancer than those that don't. Yet nutritionism encourages us to look elsewhere for the explanation: deep within the meat itself, to the culpable nutrient, which scientists have long assumed to be the saturated fat. So they are baffled when large-population studies, like the Women's Health Initiative, fail to find that reducing fat intake significantly reduces the incidence of heart disease or cancer. Of course thanks to the low-fat fad (inspired by the very same reductionist fat hypothesis), it is entirely possible to reduce your intake of saturated fat without significantly reducing your consumption of animal protein: just drink the low-fat milk and order the skinless chicken breast or the turkey bacon. So maybe the culprit nutrient in meat and dairy is the animal protein itself, as some researchers now hypothesize. (The Cornell nutritionist T. Colin Campbell argues as much in his recent book, ''The China Study.'') Or, as the Harvard epidemiologist Walter C. Willett suggests, it could be the steroid hormones typically present in the milk and meat; these hormones (which occur naturally in meat and milk but are often augmented in industrial production) are known to promote certain cancers.
So there is, understandably, a movement to do something about rising obesity, especially among the young. Bills that would require schools to serve healthier lunches, remove vending machines selling sweets and soda, and so on have been introduced in a number of state legislatures. By the way, Britain -- with the second-highest obesity among advanced countries -- has introduced stringent new guidelines on school meals. But even these mild steps have run into fierce opposition from conservatives. Why? In part, this is yet another red-blue cultural conflict. On average, people living outside metropolitan areas are heavier than urban or suburban residents, and people in the South and Midwest are heavier than those on the coasts. So it's all too easy for worries about America's weight to come off as cultural elitism. More important, however, is the role of the food industry. The debate over obesity, it turns out, is a lot like the debate over global warming. In both cases, major companies protect their profits not only by lobbying against policies they don't like, but also by financing advocacy groups devoted to debunking research whose conclusions they don't like.
Mr. Wachter said he prefers Robert Wood Johnson to Sloan-Kettering for several reasons, many of them having to do with convenience and friendly, highly organized doctors and nurses. He also said he has great confidence in the medical decisions of the Robert Wood Johnson doctors. But he admitted that after prostate cancer was discovered by his New Jersey doctors several years ago, he quickly returned to his oncologist at Sloan-Kettering for primary treatment. ''It's strictly based on reputation -- what can I say?'' Mr. Wachter said, adding, ''Right now I don't have anything major, so I'm using Robert Wood Johnson.''
Dr. Hamilton said Mr. Freeland came into contact with the couple because he mistakenly dialed their organization in 2000 after receiving his diagnosis of terminal cancer, thinking that he could get information about ending his life. Instead, Dr. Hamilton said, the three began a two-year relationship in which the Hamiltons helped Mr. Freeland receive treatment for depression and other medical problems. ''This case makes it abundantly clear that doctor-assisted suicide is incompatible with the physician's role as healer,'' said Dr. Hamilton, who released a paper yesterday describing Mr. Freeland's case at a symposium on ethics and end-of-life care at the American Psychiatric Association annual meeting at the Marriott Marquis Hotel in Manhattan. An advocate for laws like the one in Oregon, Scott Swenson, expressed reservations about the Hamiltons' account. Mr. Swenson, executive director of the Death With Dignity National Center, said the Hamiltons had in the past exaggerated the facts of cases to undermine the law.
''You can't approve a drug unless the drug exists, unless you can inspect the plant,'' Dr. Kessler said. In the meantime, some doctors have been using methotrexate, a drug used to treat cancer patients, to induce abortions. This use is legal, but its use is not widespread because methotrexate was not extensively tested and is not approved as an abortion drug. The decision to announce the approval of mifepristone, Dr. Henney, the F.D.A. commissioner, said, reflects the agency's own six-month interval to rule on applications to market a drug. Danco submitted crucial information six months ago, she added. ''I would go back again to saying that politics did not play a role in this,'' Dr. Henney said. ''The people who know me and the people who know this agency know that we make our decisions based on the scientific evidence that we have before us. These are scientific decisions.'' U.S. APPROVES ABORTION PILL
Two rigorous studies involving thousands of people have failed to confirm one of the most widely held beliefs about diet and health: that eating low-fat, high-fiber foods can reduce the risk of colon and rectal  cancer. The studies found that neither eating a low-fat diet with abundant fiber, much of it from fruits and vegetables, nor eating extra fiber in the form of wheat bran made any difference in colon cancer risk. And while some researchers say there is still a chance that fiber helps prevent colon cancer, others say it is time to stop telling people that it can. Experts on colon cancer said the research, led by scientists at the National Cancer Institute and the University of Arizona, left them stunned. Colon and rectal cancer is the second-leading cause of cancer-related death in the United States, after lung cancer, and is diagnosed in  130,000 Americans a year. Many people hope that a high-fiber diet will  protect them.
Correction:  November 25, 2003, Tuesday  A front-page article on Nov. 13 about a study of the cholesterol-lowering drugs Lipitor and Pravachol referred imprecisely to the directness of the comparison between them. While the study was a head-to-head comparison -- that is, both drugs were given to heart patients at the maximum allowable dose -- the article omitted those dosages. Patients on Lipitor, or atorvastatin, were given 80 milligrams a day. Patients on Pravachol, or pravastatin, were given half that dose, 40 milligrams a day, because that was the maximum allowable dose at the time. (Bristol-Myers Squibb, the maker of Pravachol, has since received approval for an 80-milligram dose.) The research, conducted by the Cleveland Clinic and financed by Pfizer, the maker of Lipitor, was intended to test the effects of aggressive and moderate therapies on lowering cholesterol. (In an 18-month period, the Lipitor patients reduced their low density lipoprotein levels -- L.D.L.'s -- from 150 on average to 79. The levels for Pravachol patients fell to an average of 110. Plaque growth stopped in those taking Lipitor; it increased 2.7 percent in those on Pravachol after 18 months. Both drugs are known to prevent fatal heart attacks.)
In a medical emergency, uninsured people can get care, even if they walk away from their bills. But if it is not an emergency, doctors and hospitals may insist on payment, often requiring a deposit in advance. As a result, some uninsured people struggle for years to pay medical bills and others put off seeing a doctor until minor problems become major ones. Some health policy experts like Uwe Reinhardt, an economics professor at Princeton University, see the situation as ''brutal and inhumane.'' But, Professor Reinhardt said, doctors and hospitals are trapped in it. Despite the discounts they have negotiated, some large insurance companies have had their own financial troubles lately. For example, Aetna, the nation's largest health insurer, reported in January that its fourth quarter earnings had declined by 65 percent. Mark Pauly, a professor of health care systems at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, said there was no real villain. ''I don't think it's exactly good versus evil,'' he said, ''it's just business.''
Gloria Feldt, the president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said that her group was looking at state laws and trying to educate doctors. ''I think that by and large they will understand that there will be some issues,'' Ms. Feldt said. ''But will they catch all of the nuances at this point? Probably not.'' In Pennsylvania, where Dr. Creinin practices, abortion providers must register with the state and report all abortions, without providing patients' names. They must counsel women on alternatives 24 hours before providing an abortion. The state also requires that abortion providers have a written agreement with a hospital where they can transfer patients. But state laws vary. Bonnie Scott Jones, a lawyer at the Center for Reproductive Law and Policy, said  that in 31 states, parents must be notified before a minor has an abortion. The laws in 13 states require that women be counseled about abortion and then wait for a period of time before having one. Other states, like North and South Carolina and Alabama, require that doctors examine fetal remains. In North Dakota, the remains must be buried, incinerated or cremated.
Boston Scientific provided fresh evidence in its strong quarterly earnings report Tuesday that it reigns supreme in the market for drug-coated stents, the tiny mesh cylinders that cardiologists insert into arteries to keep them open once blockages have been cleared. Led by Taxus, the company's drug-coated stent, Boston Scientific's sales of stents reached $686 million, more than five times its stent sales for the quarter a year ago. Demand was so strong, the company said, that it took Taxus, introduced last spring, less than two months to regain its hold on 70 percent of the market after nearly 100,000 stents were recalled in July when reports of manufacturing defects linked it to three deaths and about 40 injuries. James R. Tobin, Boston Scientific's president and chief executive, said on Tuesday that Taxus ''is proving itself to be the revolutionary technology we had hoped it would become.'' But there are clouds on the horizon for Taxus -- growing evidence that while Taxus is easier to insert, Johnson &amp; Johnson's Cypher, the only other drug-coated stent approved for sale in the United States, may produce better results for most patients.
Jeff Spencer, Mr. Armstrong's Tour de France chiropractor, said Mr. Carmichael's skill is communication. ''The hallmark of any successful coach is to be able to extract the essential elements and teach that to others,'' said Dr. Spencer, who has a master's degree in exercise science. To test the nine-week program, Carmichael Training gave the book to roughly two dozen volunteers in the Colorado Springs area in January. They checked in at Carmichael every three weeks. Jill Ciolli, a schoolteacher and the mother of four, said she found it easy to follow. ''This was a 'For Dummies' book,'' said Mrs. Ciolli, 36, a former soccer player who said that she relished losing 23 pounds and getting back her wind. Mrs. Ciolli remains committed to the program, chiefly because her brother was diagnosed with diabetes not long ago. Another participant, Gregory Mark Pitel, a defense contractor, credited the program with increasing his energy, lowering his cholesterol and persuading him to try vegetables his wife had been pushing for years.
''It's really a thousand flowers blooming,'' said James Trussell, director of the Office of Population Research at Princeton University, and one of the earliest advocates of emergency contraception. ''What started off as a tiny band of people is now a much larger one, and people are starting to act on their own.'' Emergency contraception has been an unlikely story from the start. Jane Boggess, director of the Pharmacy Access Plan, which advocates wider distribution of the drug, calls it ''the little engine that said it could.'' In 1974, a Canadian researcher reported that taking a high-dose regimen of birth control pills within 72 hours of unprotected sex could prevent pregnancy. While RU-486, or mifepristone, is often called the morning-after pill, that description more accurately applies to emergency contraceptives. RU-486 triggers an abortion up to 12 weeks after conception. The emergency contraceptive pill prevents conception. Researchers say they still do not know how the pill works. It either delays ovulation or prevents a fertilized egg from attaching to the uterus. Depending on which brand is used and how early it is taken after sex, it prevents pregnancy in 75 to 89 percent of cases. New research shows that it can prevent pregnancy even if taken five days after sex. The regimen is two pills taken 12 hours apart, containing a high dose of progestin and, in the case of one drug, Preven, estrogen.
Doctors say there is still need for better drugs for hepatitis B and C and H.I.V. because existing drugs do not always work and can have severe side effects. More drugs are also needed for other viruses, including respiratory syncitial virus, which kills about 11,000 Americans a year, and human papillomavirus, which causes cervical cancer. As for the common cold, although there are many remedies for symptoms like coughs or runny nose, no drugs directly attack the virus. Colds are caused by a variety of viruses, making it hard for a single drug to work on all of them. Moreover since a drug would be used by millions of people for a nonserious disease, a cold remedy would have to be extremely safe for its benefits to outweigh its risks. Safety concerns led to rejection last year of an antiviral drug developed by ViroPharma that could shorten a cold's length from seven days to six.
It is uncertain how the panels will vote after their joint hearing on Tuesday or whether the F.D.A. will take their advice. The Bush administration opposes abortion and is far more conservative on birth control issues than the Clinton administration, which in 2000 approved mifepristone, or RU-486, a pill that induces abortion in the first few weeks of pregnancy. Although the panels include abortion opponents like Dr. Joseph B. Stanford of the University of Utah, who has said he does not prescribe hormonal contraception, they also include one of the staunchest advocates of emergency contraception, Dr. James Trussell of Princeton. On both sides of the issue, letter-writing campaigns to the agency, as well as e-mail campaigns to rally support, have intensified. The agency is allotting individuals and groups a few minutes each to speak. Proponents say over-the-counter approval would make the pills easy to obtain. Many women still do not know about them, and those who do usually do not have prescriptions if they need it.
SIXTEEN years ago, when Geri Barish, a Baldwin resident, was 41, she scheduled her first mammogram. The radiologist's office gave her an appointment that same week. The routine test -- which is given to many thousands of women on Long Island every year -- detected breast cancer. Less than a year later, Mrs. Barish found another cancer through a self-examination. And last month, her yearly mammogram picked up yet a third cancer. ''It was the early detection that saved my life,'' said Mrs. Barish, the president of 1 in 9, a Long Island advocacy group for breast cancer treatment and research. ''All anyone knows is that early detection gives women like me the best chance for survival. Two of my mammograms found cancers that couldn't be felt and had no symptoms.'' But for many Long Island women, the early detection that mammograms can provide is now harder to come by. An increasing number of radiologists are no longer offering the test, and this means that women are having to wait six weeks to five months for appointments. Radiologists make the distinction between screening mammograms, for women with no symptoms, and diagnostic mammograms, for women with symptoms like breast pain or lumps. The diagostic tests can usually be scheduled in a week or at most, two.
''Concierge care is like a new country club for the rich,'' Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California, said at a joint economic committee hearing in Congress last year. ''The danger is that if a large number of doctors choose to open up these types of practices, the health care system will become even more inequitable than it is today.'' But for Mrs. Lipson, who pays $1,650 a year, the niceties enabled by concierge medicine can make all the difference. Dr. Kaminetsky was in daily touch with her doctors in Beijing. E-mail messages, X-ray reports and digitalized images flew back and forth. When the bleeding was stabilized and Mrs. Lipson returned home, Dr. Kaminetsky immediately connected her with a local specialist for a biopsy of her diseased lungs, and then with infectious disease experts for treatment of the unusual infection that was found. Mrs. Lipson's long convalescence was seamless, with none of the snags that can magnify the misery of serious illness: no long hours in strange waiting rooms, no lost X-ray or culture reports, no contradictory pronouncements by specialists confused by missing information. Dr. Kaminetsky's office coordinated all her appointments, tests and treatments. He personally telephoned her with all results and saw her as often as necessary to make sure everything went smoothly.
While we remain in this zone of uncertainty, people with arthritis should remember that conventional over-the-counter agents like naproxen (as in Aleve) or ibuprofen (as in Advil) work extremely well, are much cheaper than the Cox-2 agents, and are not known to have any risk of heart attacks. In addition, one of the most-cited benefits of the Cox-2 agents -- that they are less likely to cause stomach ulcers than over-the-counter drugs -- may ben grossly exaggerated. Second, and what may be more alarming, is that despite studies showing the magnitude of the public health problem, for several years Merck did nothing to investigate. This surely represents a conflict between the interests of the public and the interests of a company with a blockbuster drug that had sales of $2.5 billion in 2003. Instead of doing the requisite research in patients with heart disease -- who frequently have arthritis as well and are thus prime users of anti-inflammatory medicines -- the company undertook studies that avoided them. At the same time, Merck spent at least $100 million a year for direct-to-consumer Vioxx advertising, while the company's employees and their consultants published several papers in medical journals rebutting studies reporting Vioxx's heart attack risk. The Food and Drug Administration could have forced Merck to do the appropriate research studies, but instead it was a bystander.
So what's worse? Losing one eye or both ears? Constant back pain or severe asthma? Late-stage diabetes or congestive heart failure? To get the answer, these economists have developed several tests. The simplest and most elegant is called the standard gamble. People are asked to imagine having the symptoms of a certain disease -- the pain, loss of function and shortened life expectancy. (Economists try to avoid using the specific name of the disease when they are describing it because some diseases, especially cancer, provoke disproportionately negative responses.) Then the people are told that an operation exists that would cure them. But if the operation fails, the patient will die. Under those circumstances, what odds of failure will the sick person tolerate? The higher the odds, the worse the disease. For example, a survey of people with severe diabetes, including blindness, found that they would accept the operation even if there were only a 42 percent chance they would survive, according to a registry compiled by Dr. Neumann's program at Tufts.
A few diagnostic tests -- for instance, the Pap smear, the colonoscopy and the DEXA scan for osteoporosis -- have proved to be effective tools for defensive medicine, allowing doctors to catch disease and treat it before symptoms appear. But many other diagnostic tests, which have their places if a patient has symptoms, are given routinely to apparently healthy people in the name of prevention. They are having the perverse effect of benefiting only a small minority of patients while exposing the majority to invasive, often risky, treatment they don't necessarily need. This is true for mammography and the prostate specific antigen, or P.S.A., test -- two screening tests that most Americans unvaryingly believe will help thwart an untimely death. On the surface, the logic seems obvious. Prostate cancer is the second most common cause of cancer death among men, after lung cancer, and breast cancer ranks second for women. Both tests can catch tumors when they are tiny. High-resolution mammography can now detect breast cancers not much bigger than two letters printed on this page, while the P.S.A. test catches prostate tumors on average 11 years before a digital rectal exam. But if early diagnosis really worked, then the mortality rate, or deaths per 100,000 in the population, should go down as more and more people are screened. Some cancer epidemiologists and doctors now argue that there is little evidence that either screening test has lowered the death rate significantly for its respective cancer.
''The basic message here,'' Dr. Denberg said, ''is that patients should be alert to the issue -- misconceptions are common, even among well-educated men -- and understand that there is no reason to rush into a treatment decision.'' Correction:  July 10, 2006, Monday  An article in Science Times on Tuesday about new research on men's attitudes toward prostate cancer referred imprecisely to the course of the disease. While it tends to advance slowly, it is not invariably slow-growing.
''Many children can pick up that no one wants to talk about this,'' Dr. Koplewicz said. Nor is keeping disturbing information from children always the best way to protect them -- something Elizabeth St. Clair learned last fall from her daughter Isabelle, a first grader at P.S. 234. Ms. St. Clair, a lawyer for St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers, said she would never know exactly what her daughter saw on the morning of Sept. 11, when she scooped the 6-year-old up in her arms and ran for safety through the rubble and the smoke. ''I wish I were a pigeon,'' Isabelle told her mother six weeks later. ''If you're a pigeon and you live on a tall building and your building catches on fire, you get to burn up before you hit the ground.'' She had nightmares. She asked if the house would be bombed. She worried constantly about fire and did not want to go outside.
''I don't think it is helpful or fair to point the finger at the particular companies that were involved in us doing this exercise,'' Dr. Schultz said. On Tuesday, Dr. Schultz, who took his current position in August, rejected any suggestion that the F.D.A. had sat on the report. The next day, the agency released the report on its Web site. The report recommends changes to the agency's oversight of the mandatory study process, including using a computerized tracking system. Several companies cited in the report, including Boston Scientific, Medtronic and Bausch &amp; Lomb, maintained that they had done the required studies or were in the process of doing so, and that any shortcomings must lie with the agency's administration of the program.
DURING years of fighting liability suits, makers of silicone breast implants paid out more than $7 billion in verdicts and settlements to women claiming injuries. Then, last week, came a correction of sorts. An independent scientific panel issued a report suggesting the courts had been wrong; implants, the scientists said, didn't cause serious diseases after all. Echoing earlier panels, the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences said silicone implants can cause localized problems. But the report said there was no persuasive evidence that the implants caused the more serious ailments that some juries had blamed on them, like lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. The report, far too late to retrieve the $7 billion, made the courts look foolish, hoodwinked by scientific speculation. It highlighted sharp differences between legal and scientific approaches to the search for truth, and increased the growing pressure on the legal system to move away from its tradition of letting juries sort out conflicting claims.
''THIRTEEN. Keep pushing. Fourteen. One more.'' Stretched out on a weight-lifting bench, a dumbbell in each fist, Ryan Renicker, 25, grimaces. His friend and occasional personal trainer, Joshua Tomey, quietly eggs Mr. Renicker on as he hoists the weights one last time, over his chest in a butterfly motion, before easing them to the mat with a deep sigh. Mr. Renicker works out most nights at City Gym, in Boston's Kenmore Square, before heading home from his job as a financial analyst. On this midwinter evening, he moves among exercise stations in a fury of flexed muscles. And what muscles they are. At 6 feet 2 inches and 210 pounds, Mr. Renicker has a broad chest, rocky abdominals and biceps like footballs. But he has had help. For the last two years, Mr. Renicker has been taking a daily five-gram dose of the dietary supplement creatine monohydrate. He spends about $30 a month on the white powder, which he buys in two-pound tubs.
''Unless something dramatic happens with the CancerVax, I think what he will be remembered for is the sentinel node,'' said Dr. Alistair J. Cochran, a professor of pathology and surgery at the University of California at Los Angeles, who helped Dr. Morton develop the technique. Dr. Morton began college at Berea in Kentucky, which offers free education to students from Appalachia, but he graduated from Berkeley and received his medical degree from U.C. San Francisco. He became a researcher at the National Cancer Institute in 1960. Cancer cells are not normally attacked by the body's immune system, partly because they are derived from the body's own cells. But Dr. Morton, upon arriving at the institute, became intrigued by reports that in rare cases cancer cells vanished, suggesting that sometimes the immune system does attack them. He also noticed that melanoma that had gone into remission could return after 20 or 30 years, often after an event like a bypass operation or the death of a spouse, stressful situations that might weaken the immune system.
''There are theological objections to this work, but the objectors have to back off,'' Michael Archer, a scientist working on the cloning of the extinct Tasmanian tiger, has said. ''This is the way science, and life, is going.'' Not all cloning projects are alike, and cloned pigs, it must be said, may someday save the lives of people in need of transplants. And yet, every news account that wallows in porcine cuteness (''the baby pigs playfully wrestled and nibbled on one another's ears at the news conference'') or matter-of-factly reports their beneficial effect on PPL's stock price, makes the whole Frankensteinian business seem that much more banal. Every breakthrough in animal cloning makes human cloning not just more technically plausible, but more emotionally plausible. In February, the European Patent Office admitted that it had -- by mistake -- issued a patent that could include human cloning. It's true that many technological innovations that once seemed disturbingly unnatural -- in vitro fertilization, for one -- have been folded more or less smoothly into the fabric of modern life. But human cloning is different. It would be a quantum leap toward the manufacture of children as consumer goods. And it would introduce a new kind of intergenerational tyranny: who can doubt that a child endowed with -- specifically chosen to have -- a previously used genotype would grow up fettered by parents' Procrustean expectations of how those genes should perform? ''It is pertinent to ask,'' wrote Ian Wilmut and Keith Campbell, the scientists who brought us Dolly, ''whether curiosity, vanity, the wish for personal power or an undoubtedly misguided desire for immortality really are good enough reasons for bringing a child into the world.''
In fact, said, Mr. Wheeler, the head of the manufacturers' association, few devices reach that level because it was established with a 50-fold margin of error and the energy they need rarely reaches that threshold. ''We stand behind scientific consensus that no health risks have been demonstrated,'' said Norman Sandler, director of global strategic issues at Motorola. ''But we support the need for more research into the matter.'' Correction:  August 4, 2000, Friday  An article in Circuits on July 27 about potential health risks of cellular telephone use misstated government agencies' findings. They have said that available evidence does not indicate whether cellular phones are safe or unsafe; the agencies have not said the phones are safe.
''Malicious remarks have been made to hospital administrators and the Department of Health about me that are completely false,'' Dr. Arbit said in a recent interview. His view is echoed by dozens of his colleagues at the hospital, who have sprung to his defense in interviews. Officials at the Staten Island hospital are defending Dr. Arbit's practice, and have accused the State Health Department of passing judgment before conducting a thorough investigation. State health officials say, however, that their inquiry has involved many interviews and has led investigators to conclude that the doctor's patients are in danger. Still, Dr. Arbit's case is one of the clearest examples of the State Health Department's ambition to spotlight cases for disciplining doctors at a time when President Clinton is urging more public disclosure of medical errors. The agency's swift action is a striking departure from what has traditionally been viewed as a lumbering, cautious investigative process that some say leans overboard toward the medical establishment. And its treatment of Dr. Arbit has prompted doctors and medical officials to question whether the state health commissioner, Dr. Antonia C. Novello, is on a crusade that might have overlooked the internal disputes now becoming apparent at the Staten Island hospital.
''The campaign to collect eggs is grotesque and bizarre,'' said Cho Yi Yeo Wool, editor of a feminist women's magazine here, during a seminar presented Monday by the splinter Democratic Labor Party, which espouses strict ethical regulations. ''Is a human egg some kind of gold trinket or mineral that you can dig out from a mountainside?'' Roman Catholic churches in South Korea have also criticized Dr. Hwang's work and are financing rival stem cell research based on umbilical cord blood, which does not involve the destroying of human embryos, as Dr. Hwang's work does. The government has promised to continue financing his research, though. On Monday at the lab, two researchers said they expected their leader to return to work soon. ''He is a fatherlike figure to us,'' said Lee Byong Chon, the No. 2 scientist at Dr. Hwang's lab. ''This is a fresh start for us to continue to work and make our work completely up to global standards. We have a strong pride in our work. We know that what we do is elevating the brand value of our country.''
For example, he said, a recent study found that heart attack patients were getting blood-thinning prescription drugs to prevent clots, as they should, but up to 40 percent were getting the wrong dose, usually one too high. And even if every prescription were exactly right, as many as half of all patients do just what Mr. Orr did after his first heart attack. They stop taking many or all of their drugs. Sometimes it is a matter of communication. ''The information did not get to the primary doctor and the primary doctor did not know to renew the prescription,'' Dr. Peterson said. ''When we talk to patients, they say: 'No one communicated to me the importance of being on the medications long term. I thought I would only need them for three months, I thought it would be like an antibiotic. I thought they put in a stent so why do I need a drug?' ''
Dr. Ralph Reisfeld, a professor of immunology at Scripps Research Institute who has known Dr. Morton since 1965, said his vaccine had ''as good a chance as any'' to work. ''He has an iron will,'' Dr. Reisfeld added, ''because otherwise he would have long given up.'' SCIENTIST AT WORK: DONALD MORTON
Suicide remains a leading cause of death for American adolescents, but over the last decade, the rate of suicide among teenagers has declined. In a new study, researchers at Columbia University suggest that this drop may be linked in part to the increasing use of antidepressant drugs in young people. The researchers examined teenage suicide rates and prescriptions filled by children ages 10 to 19 in 588 regions of the country from 1990 to 2000. Regions with higher rates of antidepressant use in 1990 or 2000 had higher suicide rates. But over time, an increase in the use of antidepressants was associated with a decrease in suicides. The inverse relationship between the drugs and suicide held for boys, older adolescents and lower-income teenagers but not for girls or younger adolescents. ''People have known for some time that over the last years there has been an increase in the use of antidepressants'' among children, said Dr. Mark Olfson, a professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia and the lead author of the study, published this month in The Archives of General Psychiatry. ''The question we're trying to get at here is, 'Has that contributed to the decline in suicide?' This provides some evidence that it may have.''
Mrs. Edoga now stays in the city during the week, ''with the dog and the cat,'' and her husband comes in on weekends. Although she hasn't lost interest in her Victorian house -- ''I went back there last weekend, and my peonies were as big as saucers'' -- her heart is clearly in New York. In the living room are several of her sculptures, including an abstract piece created of alabaster and another of limestone. For her husband, the apartment in New York provides a real escape. ''It's far enough away from work that you can get away,'' he said. They have flung themselves into their new neighborhood. ''We joined Crunch,'' Mrs. Edoga said, ''and my husband took his first yoga class a week ago. We've already gone to the Gotham Bar and Grill on 12th Street, and to the Dean and DeLuca coffee bar nearby. We've discovered the Second Avenue Deli, and of course I discovered shopping.''
Citing failures of scientists to report problems, federal health officials and members of the National Bioethics Advisory Commission said yesterday that changes were needed in the monitoring of research on people. The commission heard testimony as part of its review of the safety and ethics of human research. It has been working for more than a year, holding hearings around the country, but in that time several problems in experiments involving people have emerged. Federal regulators have halted experiments at several major institutions, citing violations of ethics rules. Certain trials involving gene therapy were halted after a patient died. After hearing testimony from witnesses representing the National Institutes of Health and the Food and Drug Administration, Dr. Harold T. Shapiro of Princeton University, chairman of the bioethics commission, said: ''One problem we have heard again and again is that, once an experiment is approved, there is a failure to follow what's going on with the patients. I think there is a growing consensus that something must be done.''
While only fecal occult blood tests have been shown to prevent colon cancer, the other screening tests should have a similar effect, but it has not yet been proven in rigorous tests, Dr. Woolf said. The fecal test costs $10 to $20, while a sigmoidoscopy costs $150 to $500, a colonoscopy, $1,000 to $1,500, and a barium enema, $300 to $500. While the fecal test is cheap, it must be repeated every year because it can miss polyps and cancers. The other tests can be performed less often because they are more likely to find polyps and cancers. Yet those tests involve office visits and some discomfort. Dr. Mandel and others said that doctors should urge patients older than 50 to be screened using at least one of the tests. '' We have the technology to virtually eradicate this disease,'' Dr. Mandel said. ''That is quite exciting.''
IF the drug industry has a commercial Holy Grail, it might be an anti-aging pill, one that would let you live longer and prolong your youthful vigor. The market would be huge, of course. The problem is that to get it approved by the Food and Drug Administration, researchers would have to find a way to demonstrate that it works. To prove it was safe and effective, a company would have to give it to people and then wait to see if they lived longer than a control group that did not take the drug. The researchers might have to wait decades, by which time their patent protection rights -- 17 years, by current law -- would be long gone. The company would pay the costs of research and development, and the generic drug industry would reap the benefits. ''It's a bear of a problem,'' said Dr. Leonard P. Guarente, a biology professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a founder of Elixir Pharmaceuticals, which, according to its Web site, seeks ''therapeutics that slow aging, forestall the disease and disability that accompany aging, and extend life's most productive period.''
Cancer is a complex disease, arising from the interaction of our genes with numerous factors in the environment. No single influence can completely explain its genesis. We must minimize our risk for cancer, but not blame ourselves if we develop it. My patient with colon cancer died two years ago, before this new information on diet and colon cancer was available. The tragedy seems more profound: knowing that he didn't cause his cancer would have alleviated some of the anguish that he experienced. Jerome Groopman, a professor of medicine at Harvard, is the author, most recently, of ''Second Opinions: Stories of Intuition and Choice in the Changing World of Medicine.''
All of this matters to the young woman -- a lot. In the examining room, she twice asks the nurse-practitioner what ''it'' looks like at this point. ''When does it start looking like a person?'' she asks. ''When can you see a face?'' She wants to know about brain waves (not yet measurable) and the presence or absence of a beating heart (it's there, in rudimentary form). She called for her appointment here the very morning she did her at-home pregnancy test. That this is a method designed solely for early pregnancy -- from the moment a woman knows she is pregnant to about nine weeks -- appeals to her almost as much, if not more than, the fact that it allows her to avoid a surgical abortion. Surgery scares her. ''Invasive'' is the word she uses, and she shudders when she says it. There will be no surgery for her -- unless this is one of those rare cases (about 2 percent, according to the latest clinical trials of mifepristone) when abortion by medication does not work and vacuum aspiration by machine, the most common method of abortion now, becomes necessary after all. And there will be no trek to a clinic, where anyone watching her enter and leave could make a reasonable surmise about her business there. No protesters to dodge, no one shouting ''baby killer.'' The office she is visiting today is tucked deep in a sprawling hospital complex in Rochester, where she lives. Hundreds of people come and go here all day for everything from vaccinations to gall-bladder operations to visits with hospitalized friends. And the doctor this young woman sees isn't even an OB-GYN. He's a pediatrician who developed an interest in medical abortion while treating pregnant teen-agers and who has lately been conducting research on mifepristone. How could even the most enterprising anti-abortion picketer figure out whom to buttonhole?
When GlaxoSmithKline settled a lawsuit three years ago with the State of New York over the antidepressant medication Paxil, the company agreed to take an unusual step: publicly disclosing the results of its clinical trials for Paxil and other drugs. The company, which was criticized at the time for failing to publicize all pediatric trials of Paxil, not just the positive ones, made good on its promise. The first posting on a new Web site was about 65 studies involving its popular diabetes drug, Avandia. This week, GlaxoSmithKline learned what that greater disclosure could mean. A cardiologist at the Cleveland Clinic, Dr. Steven Nissen, stumbled onto the Glaxo Web site while researching Avandia last April. He and a colleague quickly analyzed the data, and on Monday, The New England Journal of Medicine released its finding that Avandia posed a heightened cardiac risk. ''It was a treasure trove,'' Dr. Nissen said about the Web site.
Some other companies and the drug industry's trade group, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association of America, said last week that they could not comment because they had not seen specific registry proposals. But one official of the trade group raised concerns that registries could release company trade secrets or present data in ways confusing to doctors and the public. Whatever the case, the example of the little-known test of Celexa in adolescents shows how medical journals can now miss information about a major trial of a drug that is the subject of an article. Dr. Nancy C. Andreasen, the editor of The American Journal of Psychiatry, which is the flagship publication of American Psychiatric Association, said it was the responsibility of a study's authors to provide a scholarly overview of the published articles discussed in their paper. She said that her publication did not specifically ask authors or companies that sponsor trials about unpublished studies.
In addition, Cialis may prove to have broad cardiovascular benefits as a once-daily pill, Dr. Barada said. The enzyme that Cialis and the other impotence drugs inhibit is found in blood vessels all over the body, and Icos is now studying Cialis for the treatment of high blood pressure. ''There may be a much bigger picture than just for erectile dysfunction,'' he said.
Dr. Allen Roses, who is the vice president and worldwide director of genetics at the giant pharmaceutical company Glaxo-Wellcome, does not yet know the genetic variations that shaped his medical history, but he is pursuing them with a sense of personal mission. At age 46, he knew he might be susceptible to heart disease, even though his cholesterol level was normal. He looked at his family -- his father, mother and sister had had heart attacks, although they also had normal cholesterol levels. So, to keep his heart in top condition, he taught aerobics classes. ''I was in the best shape of my life,'' Dr. Roses said. ''Except I had a heart attack.'' Now, armed with new techniques of molecular genetics, Dr. Roses is directing research that looks for genetic variations that predispose people to heart attacks at an early age, people who, like himself, have normal cholesterol levels. He fervently thinks that once he finds the genetic footprints for this susceptibility, his company will find drugs to help others and himself. ''We want the drug that's going to work,'' Dr. Roses said.
''There is an unprecedented increase in prevalence of obesity at younger and younger ages without much obvious public health impact,'' Dr. Ludwig said. ''But when they start developing heart attack, stroke, kidney failures, amputations, blindness, and ultimately death at younger ages, then that could be a huge effect on life expectancy.'' Longevity projections are notoriously slippery and politically charged, with consequences for issues like Social Security, pension plans, health insurance and health care costs. Some demographers and obesity experts question whether the authors' estimate is alarmist. ''Yes, it is almost certain that the risks of these various diseases will rise as obesity rises in the population, but you also have to assume that the medical sciences will get better at treating some of these complications,'' said Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, an obesity researcher at Columbia University. ''Certainly doing that is going to end up costing more, but it may not end up stripping months or years off life.''
The pro-obesity forces -- or, if you prefer, the anti-anti-obesity forces -- make their case in part by claiming that America's weight gain does no harm. There was much glee on the right when a new study, using data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, appeared to reject the conventional view that obesity has a large negative effect on life expectancy. But as officials from the C.D.C. have pointed out, mortality isn't the only measure of health. There's no question that obesity plays an important role in many diseases that diminish the quality of life and, crucially, require expensive treatment. The growing availability of such treatment probably explains why the strong relationship between obesity and mortality visible in data from the 1970's has weakened. But the cost of treating the obese is helping to break the back of our health care system. So what can we do? The first step is to recognize the industry-financed campaign against doing anything for the cynical exercise it is. Remember, nobody is proposing that adult Americans be prevented from eating whatever they want. The question is whether big companies will have a free hand in their efforts to get children into the habit of eating food that's bad for them.
As a continuation of Dr. Bernards's study, Dr. Daniel Haber and colleagues at Harvard Medical School will begin a study of 500 women, with financing from Avon. They will send tumor tissue to Dr. Bernards at the time of diagnosis and follow the women to see if the genetic signatures predict the tumor's behavior. Dr. Haber said he hoped to expand the study to other medical centers. Most researchers were confident that a marked change in cancer diagnosis and treatment was inevitable. Genetic signatures, Dr. Lippman said, ''is a technology that is going to transform practice in the next handful of years.'' The new study, he added, shows the potential. ''This is exciting. It's good news.''
Flu viruses mutate very rapidly, and each season's version is a little different. But your immune system preserves a memory of its previous encounters with a flu, which are dragged up, like old photographs from the back of a closet, every time your system responds to a new flu invasion. Very rarely, a virus comes along bearing a surface protein that your immune system has never seen. Often this occurs when a single host -- it could be a pig, but might also be a person -- becomes infected with two strains of flu simultaneously, one from a mammalian lineage, the other from an avian one. Inside the host, the eight gene segments of the two strains are shuffled randomly into new configurations, like the symbols in the window of a slot machine. If one of these configurations happens to be both pathogenic and transmissible from human to human, jackpot: a pandemic ensues. The 1957 and 1968 pandemics both probably occurred through this kind of ''reassortment.'' For a long time, most scientists believed the same kind of gene-shuffling triggered the far more calamitous 1918 pandemic as well.
In its marketing efforts, Pfizer has addressed the government's concerns about antibiotic resistance, Mr. Kelly said. Company advertising, for example, has urged parents not to demand a prescription for an antibiotic from the doctor if a child's ear infection is caused by a virus -- a practice that is contributing to antibiotic resistance. Pfizer has acknowledged a downside to advertising. While Mr. Steere contends that advertising has benefited consumers, he said it had also helped make the industry a new corporate demon in some people's eyes. ''We used to be invisible,'' he said, ''but now we're very visible.'' SINCE its founding in 1849 by Charles Pfizer and his cousin, Charles Erhart, in Brooklyn, Pfizer has had a knack for getting people to take more medicine. They  had their first breakthrough when they took a bitter treatment for parasitic worms, blended it with almond-toffee flavoring and shaped it into a candy cone.
''A few years from now, after the government approves such work, we will be ready,'' Dr. Yang said. He acknowledged that many critics feel his research into cloning is akin to man playing god. But, he said, ''I don't think the U.S. government and the U.S. people can afford to lose their No. 1 place in this science.''
A new book, ''Keep It Off: Use the Power of Self-Hypnosis to Lose Weight Now,'' sanely sidesteps the specifics of high protein, grapefruit, Zone, South Beach or any other diet and goes straight to the mind-over-matter struggle of all weight loss plans. This book's trenchant promise is that any diet works, as long as you can stay on it. Hmm. The book's author, Dr. Brian Alman, Ph.D., a psychologist who is a consultant to a weight loss program with the Kaiser Permanente health care organization, believes that weight loss can come with the right combination of self-induced trances and Stuart-Smalley-like positive affirmations. So there I sat, Week 1, his book in one hand, a bacon sandwich in the other. The good news for me was that with this book, you don't start dieting immediately. In fact, you don't start dieting ever. You just have to brainwash yourself into eating right.
This approach, called calorie restriction, involves eating about 30 percent fewer calories than normal while still getting adequate amounts of vitamins, minerals and other nutrients. Aside from direct genetic manipulation, calorie restriction is the only strategy known to extend life consistently in a variety of animal species. How this drastic diet affects the body has been the subject of intense research. Recently, the effort has begun to bear fruit, producing a steady stream of studies indicating that the rate of aging is plastic, not fixed, and that it can be manipulated. In the last year, calorie-restricted diets have been shown in various animals to affect molecular pathways likely to be involved in the progression of Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, heart disease, Parkinson's disease and cancer. Earlier this year, researchers studying dietary effects on humans went so far as to claim that calorie restriction may be more effective than exercise at preventing age-related diseases.
She has a 9-year-old son, and she said she felt she could not start again with a newborn child. This, too, is common. More than half of all women having abortions have had children, a percentage that rose in the 1980's but has not changed since 1990, according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Karen and her boyfriend have an unstable relationship plagued by money problems, and they lived with a relative after being evicted from their home. She did not come in earlier in the pregnancy, she said, because she did not have the money. In the end, because she was so far along, her abortion took two days and cost $1,375, nearly three times what it would have cost if she had come in at 12 weeks. ''People tell you you can put your child up for adoption,'' she said. ''But if your kid has medical problems, no one wants to adopt him. And you never know.''
Doctors say there is still need for better drugs for hepatitis B and C and H.I.V. because existing drugs do not always work and can have severe side effects. More drugs are also needed for other viruses, including respiratory syncitial virus, which kills about 11,000 Americans a year, and human papillomavirus, which causes cervical cancer. As for the common cold, although there are many remedies for symptoms like coughs or runny nose, no drugs directly attack the virus. Colds are caused by a variety of viruses, making it hard for a single drug to work on all of them. Moreover since a drug would be used by millions of people for a nonserious disease, a cold remedy would have to be extremely safe for its benefits to outweigh its risks. Safety concerns led to rejection last year of an antiviral drug developed by ViroPharma that could shorten a cold's length from seven days to six.
Dr. Birk heads both institutions, which work to identify the mutant genes that cause these diseases. In the last two years, the center has identified eight mutant genes not previously associated with a disease, as well as dozens of new mutations in other genes that were already associated with diseases. The findings are passed on to interested families who are given premarital genetic counseling and prenatal testing. More than 20 couples chose to end pregnancies over the past year, after doctors diagnosed in the fetuses terminal diseases that usually kill within the first few years of life. But there are risks. In a small, closed society in which secrets are hard to keep, there is the danger of stigmatizing carriers and their families, subsequently lowering their chances for marriage should word get out that a genetic disease runs in the family. The researchers try to minimize that risk by approaching families confidentially through their family doctors and offering them discreet testing, even in their own homes. Extensive genetic counseling is provided before and after testing. Results are given only in person by genetic counselors who walk individuals and families through the science and emotions of the process.
''The answer is that right now, we don't know,'' Dr. Wenger said. That is why the National Institutes of Health is doing its study.
Popular methods of screening for breast cancer and prostate cancer are coming under fire. Recent studies have suggested that the techniques -- including mammograms, breast self-examinations and blood tests for prostate-specific antigen, or P.S.A. -- do little to improve survival rates. Yet no other tests exist to detect the diseases, the most common forms of cancer in men and women. Doctors and their patients have been left to draw their own conclusions. For decades, breast self-examination and mammography were considered the first line of defense against breast cancer, which kills nearly 40,000 women each year. But in September, researchers reported the results of a 10-year study in China, which found that women who did breast self-exams found more lumps and had more biopsies on benign ones, but they did not discover actual cancers any earlier than women who did not examine themselves. As for mammography, Danish scientists who reviewed seven large studies of mammography a year ago found the research flawed and concluded that the X-ray screening technique was ineffective in saving lives or preventing mastectomies.
At the main laboratory in Groton, Conn., the scientists call that teamwork ''Cram,'' for ''Central Research Assists Marketing.'' About 25 percent of Pfizer's research money finances clinical studies of drugs that Pfizer is already selling. These studies, known as Phase 4, are common in the industry and are conducted after the F.D.A. approves a drug. Aimed at increasing the sales of existing drugs, Phase 4 studies try to show that the company's drugs can be used by patients suffering from other illnesses or that they work better than competitors' drugs. In effect, they try to expand the claims that Pfizer's sales representatives can make about the drugs. ''You can't promote a feature of a drug unless you've proven it,'' said Dr. John F. Niblack, Pfizer's top scientist and vice chairman. Outside the lab, Pfizer is also working hard to supplement its products. It has aggressively wooed other companies that are developing new drugs, asking to let Pfizer help sell them. In fact, of the four drugs in Pfizer's pipeline that the company estimates could become billion-dollar-a-year sellers, two were discovered by other companies. In a recent report, McKinsey &amp; Company, the consultants, called Pfizer ''superior'' at getting these contracts. Indeed, the antibiotic that became Zithromax was discovered by Pliva, a company in Zagreb, Croatia. Pfizer's scientists came across Pliva's patent in 1981 in a search of records at the United States Patent Office. The companies soon signed a licensing agreement.
But experts emphasized the huge amount of work that needs to be done. Dr. Evan Y. Snyder, a neurobiologist at Harvard Medical School, said it remained to be seen whether cells that looked and acted like nerve cells when they were grown in a dish in a laboratory would look and act like nerve cells when they were transplanted into the body. ''The level of proof is going to be incredibly high,'' Dr. Snyder said. Dr. J. William Langston, who is president of The Parkinson's Institute in Sunnyvale, Calif., said that while he was excited by the possibility of creating brain cells from bone marrow, he wondered if the new cells would be specific enough to treat a disease like Parkinson's. With that disease, Dr. Langston said, patients need not only nerve cells but brain cells that will make the nerve chemical dopamine. They also need cells that will remain brain cells and not revert to fat cells or bone cells, he added. And, he said, it is important that the transplanted cells not overproduce dopamine. ''If those cells make too much dopamine, you could throw the patient into overdrive,'' he said. ''How do you make sure that they make the right amount?''
The study finds that nearly all cancers caused by tests at the Nevada site are likely to be related to the iodine that was the focus of the earlier work. The overseas tests could cause cancer only through the long-lived elements. The United States is not special in this regard; all nations will have received the long-lived radioactivity, but the Centers for Disease Control did not estimate cancer rates elsewhere. Dr. Arjun Makhijani, president of the Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, an organization dedicated to nuclear disarmament, said that while the average exposures indicated by the C.D.C. study were low, concentrations in specific areas -- which still have not been determined -- are likely to have been far above those values. ''There are people in these high fallout areas who are seriously affected,'' Dr. Makhijani said. ''There is no cause for alarm, but there is a public health issue, and the government is not facing up to it.''
For scores above 400, he said, ''the patient may have obstructive heart disease and not know it.'' The next step for them may be an exercise stress test to see if the coronary arteries have narrowed to the point where heart function is impaired. An abnormal stress test, he said, may indicate the need for angioplasty or bypass surgery. The Circulation study found calcium scans to be a better predictor of coronary events than looking at conventional risk factors like blood pressure and cholesterol. ''The traditional risk factors do a good job, but we have to do better,'' said Dr. George T. Kondos, the associate chief of cardiology at the University of Illinois at Chicago and the lead author of the Circulation study. He cites studies showing that up to one-third of those with heart disease have none of the traditional risk factors, and notes that risk factors were derived from studies involving thousands of people and therefore shed more light on populations than on individual patients.
Advocates of the strategy, known as calorie restriction, or C.R., insist they're not dieting to get skinny but rather to have the last laugh. Eat smart enough, they say, and you can live to see great-great-grandchildren, not to mention postpone the onset of cancer, diabetes, heart disease and kidney failure. ''Aging is a horror and it's got to stop right now,'' said Michael Rae, a vitamin researcher from Calgary, Alberta, and a board member of the Calorie Restriction Society, which has about 900 ultralean members worldwide. ''People are popping antioxidants, getting face lifts and injecting Botox, but none of that's working,'' he said. ''At this moment, C.R. is the only tool we have to stay younger longer.'' It's worth mentioning that Mr. Rae is 6 feet tall, weighs just 115 pounds and is often very hungry. In a society obsessed with dieting, in which fads increasingly have the power to reshape the eating habits of millions -- the Atkins diet, the South Beach diet -- the C.R. lifestyle, with its abstinence ethos, will probably never win mass appeal. But the extremism of the diet does seem to fit the present mood, so much so that last month, the President's Council on Bioethics released a report specifically mentioning calorie restriction, and warning, ''The pursuit of an ageless body may prove finally to be a distraction and a deformation.''
''Polyps are very common, but the number that is actually detected varies from doctor to doctor,'' Dr. Barclay said. ''If a doctor tells you his detection rate is 25 percent or more, then that's a reasonable indication that he's looking carefully. If it's less than that, it raises the question of whether something is very different about that doctor's population or if he or she is not looking carefully enough.'' Besides being able to find growths, doctors must also be able to remove them. Though some polyps, particularly large ones, may require a surgeon with special skills or training, in most cases the doctor performing the colonoscopy should know how to take them out. ''Doctors who are properly trained to do a colonoscopy should also be trained to do a polypectomy and do it safely and well,'' said Dr. David Lieberman, chief of the division of gastroenterology and professor of medicine at Oregon Health and Science University in Portland. ''In this day and age, I hope we don't have people who are just looking and then sending patients to someone else to take out the polyps.''
These stem cells may be more limited in their repertoire than embryonic stem cells. A neural stem cell, for instance, may be able to turn into brain cells, but not into heart or liver cells. One type of adult stem cell is already being used to treat diseases. Bone marrow transplants are really transplants of hematopoietic stem cells, which give rise to the various types of blood cells and regenerate an immune system. Still, many scientists doubt that adult stem cells will be as useful as embryonic ones. Adult stem cells are extremely rare, and hard to isolate and purify. They may not exist for all tissues. Moreover, scientists have not yet figured out how to grow large numbers of adult stem cells in culture. Still, some adult stem cells are available in large quantities. Blood from umbilical cords, which is rich in adult hematopoietic stem cells, is already being banked and used for patients who need bone marrow transplants. Fat may also yield stem cells: Artecel Sciences in Durham, N.C., says it can extract stem cells from fat removed by liposuction. These cells can turn into fat, bone and cartilage and possibly into neural cells, the company says.
So when it comes to depression, no one knows if placebos are really better than doing nothing. At best, a placebo may give the patient a temporary boost if he is mildly depressed, but in a seriously depressed patient, it is right in more ways than one to call it a dummy pill. BEHAVIOR
Still, the wasted money is, in a sense, a separate discussion, he said. The real questions for the future of medical spending, he said, are: ''Does it make sense in terms of how we value different things? What do people think a life is worth? And what do you get?'' PROSPECTS
Mr. King said that although the timetable for the bill was uncertain, ''I think we have a better than 50-50 chance of pushing it through.''
Company programs get more attention, not surprisingly, when top executives are sympathetic. Michael J. Critelli, chairman of Pitney Bowes, the office-machine company based in Stamford, Conn., noticed last year that a fat-laden bacon, egg and cheese croissant was cheaper than a serving of fruit in the company cafeteria. The prices were soon readjusted to push fruit. Similarly, Pitney Bowes encourages employees to leave their cars in the most remote spot in the company lot and walk in. Retired employees were recently invited to use a company fitness center in Stamford. David Hom, executive director of corporate benefits at Pitney Bowes, said it planned to extend fitness and nutrition counseling to retirees around the country. In another case of heightened corporate attention, the drug maker SmithKline Beecham recently hired an outside firm, Health Decisions Inc., based in Golden, Colo., to create a national wellness program for 1,600 SmithKline employees who reported weight problems.
We know now that breast cancer is an extremely complex disease that often spreads invisibly through the body when a breast lump is small. Cancers detected while small may not, in fact, be early. The aggressiveness of a cancer, not just the time when it is discovered, helps determine a woman's fate. What is particularly disconcerting about the current debate over mammography is the inability of biostatisticians to agree on what the data show. Although the use of mammograms for women under 50 has been controversial for decades, the new study questions their value even after 50. The investigators in The Lancet gave weight to two studies, in Canada and in Malmo, Sweden, that are among the most skeptical about mammography. There are others with different results, and uncertainty will persist. What should women and their doctors do as we await more conclusive data? Here is my current strategy. For women under 50 -- those for whom doubts about mammography's value are strongest -- I will continue to encourage individual choice, sharing the data with patients and letting them choose whether to have mammography.  For women 50 to 70, I will continue to recommend yearly mammography. There has simply been too much supportive data for too long to abandon the test now. But I will also be less willing to insist on mammograms for my patients who decline them. At some point, we must be willing to challenge our most basic assumptions about how we fight breast cancer.
The doctor, Dr. Beckman said, ''looked at me like I'm a little nuts,'' but agreed to try. Later he returned, elated. Dr. Beckman recalled him saying: ''I can't believe how different it is. I hear things I don't usually hear.'' ''That's terrific,'' Dr. Beckman said. Being a Patient Later articles in this series will look at workplace health issues, patients who turn to alternative healers and immigrants' experiences as patients. Eight previous articles, and a reader discussion on what it is like to be a patient today, are at nytimes.com/health. Being a Patient Correction:  December 2, 2005, Friday  A front-page article on Wednesday about patients' experiences with difficult doctors, referred incorrectly to a spinal test that a patient said her doctor had mislaid. In the test, a myelogram, dye is injected into the spinal canal, not the spinal cord.
A more technical defense was mounted by scientists at McGill University and the Weill Cornell Medical College who published a research letter last week rebutting the critics. But as a defense of mammography, the paper fell far short of inspiring confidence. The authors relied on a single study that focused on a narrow range of years after the initial screening. Meanwhile, a paper published today by scientists at Dartmouth Medical School seemed to support the mammography critics. It suggests that efforts to assign a cause of death to any particular cancer are often biased in favor of screening, as critics of mammography have contended. At this point, with the debate still unsettled, it seems foolish for women who have been undergoing regular mammography screenings to abandon their routines. But a serious and open reassessment of the data is crucial, and it must be conducted by an organization that can be trusted for its objectivity.  The most credible organization to re-evaluate mammography might be the National Cancer Institute, which in some past controversies has shown independence of the cancer organizations, or perhaps the National Academy of Sciences, which is explicitly designed to perform independent reviews of controversial issues.
And urologists, who in general agree that screening may not benefit certain men, particularly the elderly,  are adamant about the test's potential benefits for finding curable cancers in men in their 50's and 60's. Dr. Robert Reiter, co-director of the prostate cancer program at the Jonsson Cancer Center at the University of California at Los Angeles, said that before the P.S.A. test came into widespread use 10 years ago ''80 percent of the cancers we were diagnosing could not be cured.'' ''But thanks to earlier detection possible with P.S.A. testing,'' Dr. Reiter said, ''nowadays 80 percent of the cancers diagnosed can be cured. So there is no doubt that we have pushed the diagnosis to a point so much earlier that things like surgery do work in terms of curing those cancers.'' THERE are famous advocates, too. Arnold Palmer, the golfer, appeared recently in a public service advertisement inviting men to ''Join Arnie's Army.'' Mr. Palmer had tested positive and underwent surgery for prostate cancer in January 1997. ''I can't stress enough the importance of P.S.A. testing,'' Mr. Palmer is quoted saying in the ad. ''Doctors can catch 8 out of 10 cancers before they spread beyond the prostate.''
Doctors know them when they see them, or so they say. They call them the frail elderly. The assumption is that frailty goes along with aging, as inevitable as white hair and wrinkles. It is the price to be paid for living to an advanced age. But now some researchers are questioning this assumption. Why, they ask, should frailty be inevitable? And what, they ask, is frailty? Are there physical signs and symptoms that define the condition? Are there biochemical markers? If so, can frailty be reversed or prevented by correcting biochemical abnormalities? The result, said Dr. Evan Hadley, an associate director at the National Institute on Aging, is a fresh approach to an old problem. Frailty, he said, is no longer seen as just part and parcel of growing old. Instead, he said, it is newly recognized as a real disease in its own right. Dr. Lewis A. Lipsitz, chief of gerontology at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, likens the changing view of frailty to the change in the way Alzheimer's disease was perceived.
There's a lot of advice given about how to maintain a healthy body, but do we know how to maintain a healthy brain and prevent dementia? BUTLER: I'm afraid there's a lot of romance in the literature suggesting that we can stop Alzheimer's disease by cognitive exercises. Like doing crossword puzzles? My mother has done them all her life, but she lost her memory anyway. BUTLER: Just as exercise keeps the body in optimal shape, exercise -- both physical and mental -- can keep the brain in optimal shape in terms of thinking clearly, making judgments and solving problems. But having a healthy body doesn't prevent you from getting cancer. Similarly, maintaining a healthy brain doesn't prevent you from having memory loss or getting Alzheimer's. GUARENTE: My feeling is slightly different. I think we can tip the odds a little bit by our lifestyles and by avoiding things that we know are bad, like smoking, like trans fats, like excess body fat. Is it a prevention? Absolutely not, but we're stacking the odds a little bit away from disease.
The users call the drug Lizzie, the Big Brother or sometimes Gilly. On blogs they rave over its uncanny ability to melt away pounds, although some are wary of its side effects, which can include nausea and strange welts. The users are not fad dieters or methamphetamine addicts, but people with diabetes. And the subject of their rhapsodies is not a gray-market diet pill sold on late-night television but Byetta, a federally approved diabetes medicine, available only by prescription, whose popularity and sales have soared since its introduction last June. For diabetics, the weight loss caused by Byetta comes as a welcome contrast to the weight gain that often accompanies insulin and other diabetes medicines; the extra pounds can eventually worsen the disease. Some patients say Byetta has reversed the course of a disease that can lead to severe complications like amputations, blindness and kidney failure and even death. ''I went from despair to life -- no hope to lots of hope,'' said the Rev. John L. Dodson, a 73-year-old pastor in Felton, Calif. Mr. Dodson, 5 feet 6 inches tall, says he has lost almost 60 pounds since starting Byetta last June and now weighs 178, his lowest weight since college.
Last year, diabetes was the sixth-leading cause of death in New York City, although city health officials said that the number of people who die from diabetes is probably underestimated. ''We don't use the word epidemic lightly,'' said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the city's health commissioner. ''This data gives us a remarkable sense of the diversity and disparity between rich and poor in the city,'' he added. ''Of all diseases New Yorkers suffer, diabetes and H.I.V. have the greatest disparities of race and class.'' In the city, 12.2 percent of Hispanics have diabetes, as do 10.8 percent of non-Hispanic blacks. Whites who are not Hispanic have the lowest rate -- 5 percent -- and Asians are second to last, with 6.8 percent. The Bronx leads the city in diabetics, with 11.5 percent of residents having the illness, while 4.6 percent of Staten Island residents have it. Dr. Frieden said the city would undertake an aggressive effort against the increase in diabetes rates. He has made addressing chronic diseases a focus of his department since he was appointed last year.
In America even a vitamin can become an instant celebrity with its own die-hard fan base and publicity machine. Vitamin E shot to fame in the early 1990's, after two large survey studies noted that male and female health professionals who said they took a supplement of up to 400 international units of the vitamin every day seemed to go on to develop fewer cases of heart disease or cancer than their peers who were not taking the supplement. The number of Americans, cardiologists included, who gulped daily capsules of vitamin E suddenly surged, from relatively few in 1990 to an estimated 23 million by 2000, according to an analysis published last month by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But in a flurry of strong follow-up studies published in the last few years, vitamin E has emerged as a sort of middle-aged, B-list actor not fulfilling its early promise. Increasingly, even many scientists and health advisory groups who say they still have high hopes for the vitamin as it occurs naturally in vegetable oils, nuts and leafy greens have begun to pan the pills, except for use by subgroups of patients with particular medical conditions.
And to get more ripped -- the etched definition of lean, toned muscle -- with Long Island's beach season fast approaching, Mr. Joseph has adopted a low-fat diet, eating a dozen egg whites for breakfast, followed by meals of skinless chicken and protein shakes laced with creatine, a substance taken to enhance muscle growth. He dismissed the possible dangers of all these muscle-enhancers by motioning to the other buff bodies adorning the beachscape. ''Dude, look around,'' he said. ''There are so many juiceheads on this beach.'' Maybe so, but few of them would admit to using anabolic steroids, which promote muscle growth by mimicking male hormones. They are a felony to possess or sell. Detective John T. McLaughlin of Nassau County Police Depatment's narcotics unit calls steroids on Long Island ''a growing problem, especially with the teenagers.'' He said that he and his partner, Thomas B. McLaughlin (no relation), are assigned mainly to investigate steroid dealing and that the case load has been increasing each year, now standing at about 35 per year.
''I'd get up in the morning and have ice cream and cookies,'' Ms. Munson said. Dinner might be three or four fast-food hamburgers and candy bars. Her husband, Jeffrey, who has lost 100 pounds, was also seriously overweight. ''Our wedding pictures are really funny,'' she said. ''We broke the bed when we were first married.'' Ms. Munson began to face her weight problem, she said, when her blood pressure began to rise. At first she did some crash dieting, eating only about 650 calories a day. ''I read every book in the library about how to keep the weight off,'' she said, and eventually settled on a more balanced approach that included salads, fish, vegetable burgers, fruit and always a little dessert. And exercise. She exercises to a tape every day, jumps rope, and has begun running. In part, Ms. Munson attributes her success at least in part to the fact that she did not know success was supposedly impossible.
Popular methods of screening for breast cancer and prostate cancer are coming under fire. Recent studies have suggested that the techniques -- including mammograms, breast self-examinations and blood tests for prostate-specific antigen, or P.S.A. -- do little to improve survival rates. Yet no other tests exist to detect the diseases, the most common forms of cancer in men and women. Doctors and their patients have been left to draw their own conclusions. For decades, breast self-examination and mammography were considered the first line of defense against breast cancer, which kills nearly 40,000 women each year. But in September, researchers reported the results of a 10-year study in China, which found that women who did breast self-exams found more lumps and had more biopsies on benign ones, but they did not discover actual cancers any earlier than women who did not examine themselves. As for mammography, Danish scientists who reviewed seven large studies of mammography a year ago found the research flawed and concluded that the X-ray screening technique was ineffective in saving lives or preventing mastectomies.
Wyeth's team faces a formidable foe. In an industry often criticized as making pricey ''me too'' drugs that involve minor tweaks to competitors' products, as well as promoting medicines of marginal value, Wyeth has decided to go full bore against Alzheimer's, a disease that has defied effective treatment since it was first identified a century ago. The company has dedicated more than 350 scientists exclusively to Alzheimer's research, and they are working on 23 separate projects for medicines to possibly treat the disease. About five million people in the United States are living with Alzheimer's, according to the Alzheimer's Association, an advocacy group funded by individual donors as well as foundations and major corporations, including drug makers. Without a cure or new treatments, the number of those with the disease could grow to 13.2 million by 2050, the National Institute on Aging estimates. ''I think this is going to be the disease, and maybe one of the biggest health care political issues of my generation,'' says Robert Essner, 59, Wyeth's professorial chief executive. ''It's hard for anyone to envision how to provide health care in the United States if you're going to have to deal with the burden. You just start to add up the cost, 20 years from now as my generation gets old -- it's phenomenal.''
I thought of this patient, and the tendency for many cancer patients to blame themselves for their disease, when I read the research results published this week in the New England Journal of Medicine. Two large studies found that dietary fiber is not a major factor in the development of colon polyps, the precursors of cancer. These studies, based on careful statistical analysis, stand in stark contrast to the observational reports that have been the prevailing wisdom of medical teaching for three decades. While diet may be important in colon cancer, it is not clear what aspect -- a specific vitamin, chemical or cooking method -- might explain the differences in risk across the globe. We humans seem particularly prone to blaming ourselves for our illnesses. In some religions, disease is  seen as a divine punishment for sin. And religious people often rationalize the seeming injustice of their malady by interpreting it as an appropriate form of retribution.
In a backlash against the onrush of biomedical research into areas that raise moral and ethical issues, the House of Representatives passed a bill this week that would ban all human cloning and subject anyone who violates the ban to criminal penalties and huge civil judgments. Unfortunately, in their zeal to legislate morality and cover their flanks from the religious right, the legislators may put a crimp in research that has promising medical benefits. Once the nature of the work is understood, most citizens would accept the very limited form of cloning involved as a useful scientific tool. Congress seems to have been spooked by an exaggerated fear that science is going too far too fast. The summer started with President Bush wrestling with an issue that seems, by contrast, relatively simple -- whether to allow federal funding of research on stem cells derived from very early stage embryos, called blastocysts, that are produced in surplus at fertility clinics. This issue raises moral and ethical questions because religious conservatives consider the blastocysts an early form of human life, potentially capable of growing into a fetus and ultimately a newborn child. Others, including this page, consider the blastocysts to be microscopic balls of cells that have no chance of becoming human in a petri dish outside the womb. They are fit subjects for research on therapies that could benefit all humankind.
''Somehow,'' he added, and it was not clear whether his words meant mother or motherland, ''your presence alone is enough to make a difference.''
Even if couples are willing to donate to other couples, other obstacles may arise. The donating family may have genetic or medical conditions that preclude donation. What's more, only about half of donated embryos are viable after the thawing process, and only a third of those result in a successful pregnancy, Mr. Stoddart said. Many couples who consider donating are deterred by questions about how the children will feel. ''I think many people worry about the child that results from the donated embryo and whether they will think, 'Why am I here and why wasn't I the embryo that became a child raised by Mom and Dad?''' Ms. Crockin said. ''They also think, 'Do I want children I am raising in my home having genetic siblings raised by someone else?''' Experts say embryo donation is just as uncommon in cases where the recipient's identity is kept anonymous as it is in cases where couples are allowed to meet, approve and even stay in touch with the receiving family.
There are certainly some men for whom prostate cancer is a devastating illness, and it shortens the quality and length of their life. There are also some men who are harmed by having been screened. If you take somebody who's an otherwise healthy, happy 55-year-old or 60-year-old, and you find that they have a small area of prostate cancer, you pull out their prostate gland surgically. If in doing so, you make them impotent or incontinent or both, you've harmed their quality of life, and it may be that that cancer never would have shortened their life. It would have grown slowly and they would have had a heart attack at 75. I begin with a discussion with each patient. But I normally start screening at age 50. Once someone has had two normal P.S.A.'s in a row, I'll get them every other year, because there's some pretty good evidence that that is as good at detecting cancer as doing it every year. You save money and you save worry.
Symptoms include nausea and vomiting, muscle weakness, headache and disorientation, as well as bloating and puffiness in the face and fingers. In the last year or so, a dozen marathon runners in this country were known or suspected of having hyponatremia, said Dr. William Roberts, a spokesman for the American College of Sports Medicine, the professional organization of sports physicians. One victim was a 43-year-old woman who died after running the Chicago Marathon last fall. Doctors are looking for hyponatremia more now than ever before, but they say that increased vigilance does not fully explain the increased diagnoses. Another reason may be that many recreational athletes are drinking too much water. ''We've done a good job of educating people on proper rehydration, but some people have taken that to the nth degree, thinking that the more you drink, the better,'' Dr. Sawka said. Doctors say that most of the marathon runners with hyponatremia were relatively inexperienced athletes who entered races to raise money for charity. ''They're the ones who are in the race for a long time, and there's some speculation that they're drinking too much water during the race,'' Dr. Roberts said.
Correction:  November 28, 2006, Tuesday  An article in Business Day yesterday about the formation of a group to conduct research on cardiovascular plaque misidentified an affiliation of Dr. Steven E. Nissen, a Cleveland Clinic cardiologist who commented on the group's plans. Dr. Nissen is the president of the American College of Cardiology, not the American Heart Association.
Scientists can allow themselves to hope that 15 years will make a difference in large part because of the sequencing of the human genome, whose effective completion was announced yesterday, and the advances in technology that have accompanied it. ''It's like anything where you have a complex reality,'' said Dr. Nelson Freimar, director of the center for neurobehavioral genetics at the University of California at Los Angeles, who studies manic depression in large Costa Rican families. ''The more windows you can look in, the better your approximation of that reality will be.'' With the genome in hand, researchers will for the first time be able to analyze groups of genes working together, looking at how they might be altered in schizophrenia, manic depression or other disorders. Scientists conducting genetic studies will also have a clearer idea of exactly which genes are in the region they are studying. And when, sometime in the future, a detailed map of the variations in human DNA -- individual point mutations, called single nucleotide polymorphisms or SNP's, in the chain of nucleotides that forms a strand of DNA -- becomes available, investigators will be able to directly compare specific chromosomal variations in people affected by an illness and in healthy subjects.
More questions were raised in March, when the Women's Health Initiative released its second report dealing with a study of estrogen-alone therapy. The good news is that researchers found no increased risk of breast cancer or heart disease in up to six years of use. Yet researchers also concluded the risk of stroke was the same as it was in the estrogen-plus-progestin tests. Dr. Isaac Schiff, chairman of a task force on hormone therapy for the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, maintains that the new report's findings cast doubt on the first. In a statement for that group, Dr. Schiff said that it was ''time to strike a balance'' between the formerly overstated benefits of hormone therapy and what he described as its overstated risks. Dr. Schiff and some other doctors say the estrogen-plus-progestin trial was flawed because the average age of the participants, 63, was more than a decade older than the average onset of menopause. Why dismiss hormone therapy for menopausal women, they ask, when it was tested in women well beyond menopause?
''We're not in the legal business, and it's kind of a touchy situation,'' Dr. McManus said. And there is another obstacle: almost every state allows insurance companies to deny coverage to injured patients who have been drinking. This means that alcoholism may be recognized as a medical condition, some emergency room doctors say, but that insurance companies have been able to avoid covering many of its most traumatic consequences, like car accidents. ''They're allowed to get away with it because society is not willing to confront this disease,'' said Dr. Runge, the highway safety administrator, about insurance companies. Even without the insurance issue, many emergency room doctors protest that they cannot take on an added burden. ''A lot of people say: 'I don't have time. I don't have time,' '' Dr. D'Onofrio said. In fact, she said, her study found that doctors can be trained to screen patients quickly by asking a few standard questions.
Dr. Nelson, Dr. Togias's friend, said that ''technically, yes,'' the change in the formulation ''should have been sent through'' to the review board. The report would presumably have included the reason for the change in the acidity, the first volunteer's cough. On May 4, the hexamethonium was administered to Ms. Roche, a technician from a nearby lab in the same institution who had volunteered for the study. A day later, she began coughing, and soon had a fever, runny nose and fatigue. By May 12, a CAT scan revealed that her lungs had the appearance of ground glass, indicating severe damage, and two days later she was put on a ventilator. ''Given her worsening condition and unsupportable oxygenation,'' reads a Hopkins report on the incident, ''her family elected to withdraw support and Ms. Roche died on June 2, 2001.''
Some people who complete L-Marc's studies continue to follow the dietary and lifestyle habits they were urged to adopt during the trials, said Dr. Harold E. Bays, the endocrinologist who directs L-Marc. ''Unfortunately,'' he said, ''many others do not, and weight recurs.'' Scientists seem to agree that, while some people are programmed to be thin and others are destined to be overweight, obesity is partly an environmental condition. Most Americans work in sedentary jobs, arriving and leaving via door-to-door transportation. At the same time, they are constantly confronted with cheap, high-calorie food. Dr. Barbara Corkey, an obesity researcher at Boston University School of Medicine, says the odds are against someone losing significant weight and not regaining it. ''There's a tremendous body drive to restore that weight,'' Dr. Corkey said. Some people do lose a lot of weight and keep it off, she said. ''But their lives are spent keeping weight off. And that's kind of their profession.''
The uncertainties of risks and benefits are even more apparent when you make choices about diet. Any time you think you have to give up some food you love for the sake of a healthier heart, you can usually find a study that says you don't need to give it up after all. Scientists have recently reported that some of the foods you thought were most damaging to your heart -- beef, chocolate, butter -- really aren't so bad, and some, like nuts, might be good for you. It's hard to resist an allusion to ''Sleeper,'' the 1973 movie in which Woody Allen plays the owner of a health food store transported to the 22nd century. When he wakes up, he finds that people are appalled at his 200-year-old concept of a ''healthy'' diet. ''You mean no deep fat?'' they ask in horror.  ''Cream pies? Hot fudge?'' THESE lines still elicit a laugh because they play on the pervasive feeling in America that it's absurd to think that food that tastes wonderful, like hot fudge, might actually be good for you. Maybe it's our Puritan heritage that makes us think that a healthy life and a happy life are mutually exclusive. But all things being equal, a surprising number of us would probably choose happy over healthy. Deep down, who can doubt that it's often more fun to sit on a chaise at the pool than it is to swim laps, and that high-fat Hagen-Dazs is much more satisfying than a plum?
SIXTEEN years ago, a small-scale study of human growth hormone therapy among older men opened a large debate in the medical community over whether it could stave off physical decline. Since then, the arguments on both sides have become only more passionate. Demands for prescriptions have increased, as has online demand for both legitimate and fraudulent forms of the product, known as HGH -- eventually growing into an estimated $1 billion global market. Because evidence shows potentially harmful side-effects, most mainstream doctors caution against using HGH, except in strictly delineated cases. Other doctors say it is an effective anti-aging weapon. ''This is an experiment going on with unsuspecting people who are living on the hope that this will somehow help them retain their youth and vigor,'' said Dr. Robert N. Butler, a professor of geriatrics at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York. Like many experts, Dr. Butler contends that proper nutrition and regular exercise, especially strength training, will yield equal or better results in building muscle mass and increasing well-being among older patients without the pitfalls of HGH, which can cost up to $20,000 a year and is rarely covered by insurance.
At the same time, Merck and Pfizer have been criticized for failing to disclose until this year clinical trial results that indicated that cox-2 painkillers like Vioxx might be dangerous to the heart. Drug makers test their medicines in thousands of trials each year, and federal laws require the disclosure of all trials and trial results to the F.D.A. While too complex for many patients to understand, the trial results are useful to doctors and academic scientists, who use them to compare drugs and look for clues to possible side effects. But companies are not required to disclose trial results to scientists or the public. Some scientists and lawmakers say new rules are needed, and a bill that would require the companies to provide more data was introduced in the Senate in February. So far no hearings have been scheduled on the legislation. The bill's prospects are uncertain, said a co-sponsor, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut.
The Stellman study involved 232 women who had breast cancer surgery and a control group of 323 women who had surgery for other conditions. All were treated between 1994 and 1996 at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park and at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset (the two hospitals have since merged). About half the women were Long Island residents. The others were from New York City, primarily Queens. The two groups were similar in weight, height, race, education and age when the first child was born. Researchers analyzed fatty tissue, obtained during surgery, for 14 types of PCB's, polychlorinated biphenyls, toxic chemical compounds once widely used in viscous liquid form as insulators in electrical equipment; for chlordane, a chemical once commonly used for termite control; and for seven organochlorine pesticides including DDT and its breakdown products. The pollutants, which remain in body fat for long periods, are suspected carcinogens and also have estrogenic properties that could affect the breast. The researchers found that all the women had comparable levels of the contaminants in their body fat whether they lived in Nassau, Suffolk or New York City. With the exception of one type of PCB, they found no association between the levels of contaminants and breast cancer risk.
Among cardiologists, it has become a running joke: maybe the powerful drugs known as statins should be added to the water supply. Not only do statins greatly reduce cholesterol and lower mortality in people at risk for heart attacks, but some studies also suggest that they might help to prevent or treat a wide range of ailments, including Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, bone fractures, some types of cancer, macular degeneration and glaucoma. An estimated 11 million Americans take statins. With new government recommendations issued last week, millions more are likely to begin taking the drugs, and many who already take them are likely to have their dosages increased. On July 12, the National Institutes of Health, in conjunction with the American Heart Association and the American College of Cardiology, endorsed sharply lowering the desired levels of harmful cholesterol for people at moderate to high risk for heart disease. The recommendations were based on clinical trials involving more than 50,000 people.
Some scientists are not convinced by such arguments. Dr. Kim Bard, a primatologist at the University of Plymouth in England, has spent more than a decade observing chimpanzee babies. ''Chimps can cry for a long time if something terrible is happening to them, but when you pick them up, they stop,'' Dr. Bard said. ''I've never seen any chimpanzees in the first three months of life be inconsolable.'' Dr. Bard thinks colic is unique to humans and is the result of their big brains. As an infant primate matures, its brain reaches a point where it can regulate its emotions and its body. Because the human brain is growing so quickly, it is harder for human babies to reach the point where they can keep their crying in check. ''That's more delayed in humans than in other primates,'' Dr. Bard said. But Dr. Bard and other researchers all agree that their ideas about crying still wait to be tested.
Finally, after a month, I got a migraine that didn't go away for five days; my hands were also swollen and tingly. I called the doctor's office and they said I was having a reaction and that I should stop. Now I'm in limbo. I just do not know what to think about this stuff. I'm supposed to go back to the doctor next month, and I haven't ruled out giving hormones another try. But in the meantime, I'm going to talk to my pharmacist; he's big on alternative medicine, and I thought I would ask him for something herbal. I know it's unproven, but so many people are doing all right with it; maybe it will help me, too. Diane Hill, 52  Monroe, La., lawyer I started taking hormones five years ago. My doctor was the one who brought it up. It was the first time I'd gone to her, and when she took my history, she asked me about symptoms of estrogen loss. At the time, I was having hot flashes; they weren't keeping me up at night, but I was waking up in a pool of water.
The supplements appeared to have no effect in preventing heart disease or stroke or in causing any health problems.
MORTALITY rates, however, were basically identical for all nine regions -- and actually slightly higher in the Seattle-Puget Sound area. Dr. Brawley cites similar findings from a recent study comparing the United States with Britain. ''I believe prostate cancer screening probably does save some lives,'' Dr. Brawley said, ''but I can prove through studies like these that it ruins some lives.'' A recent study of men living near the Mayo Clinic has added more fire to the debate. The Journal of Urology this month published a report by researchers who analyzed prostate cancer deaths in Olmsted County, Minn., from 1980 to 1997. They found that the prostate cancer death rate declined by 22 percent after intensive P.S.A. screening in the county was introduced in 1987. Dr. William Catalona, a professor of urology at Washington University in St. Louis and a leading advocate of P.S.A. testing, called the results ''striking.'' He added: ''I'm confident that with widespread use of P.S.A. testing and effective treatments, we'll see a significant fall in the prostate cancer death rate within the first decade of the next century.''
Not too long ago it was excruciatingly difficult for an independent doctor to thrive. One who tried, Dr. Thomas W. LaGrelius, a general practitioner in Torrance, Calif., said he spent years watching helplessly as his patients bailed out of his practice, refusing to go to a doctor whose fees were not covered by their insurance. Dr. LaGrelius had decided as long ago as 1980 that he wanted no part of H.M.O's. When his partners decided to stay with an H.M.O., Dr. LaGrelius quit the group and began practicing by himself, but for years he had trouble finding patients. Now, Dr. LaGrelius said, the climate has changed and patients seek him out. He is head of an organization of independent doctors in his area, called Indoc, which has 104 members and gets inquiries from all over the country. Some doctors, who once belonged to every H.M.O. in sight, said they recently decided to drop those contracts. When H.M.O.'s came to the New York area in the 1990's, doctors like Andrew Weiland, an orthopedic hand and plastic surgeon at the Hospital for Special Surgery, were afraid that if they did not join they would have no patients. ''Everyone jumped on the bandwagon and joined as many as they could for fear of being left off when the train left the station,'' Dr. Weiland said. But, he added: ''You can only run so fast and see so many patients and not run an assembly line.''
''Many elderly people live alone,'' Dr. Bayne said. ''They frequently tell me how relieved they are to know we're there for them.'' Up Close and Personal Through house calls, doctors can grasp more about a patient than might be possible in office visits. Physicians often meet caregivers or family members and can observe interpersonal dynamics; they are able to monitor drug compliance by checking the content of medicine bottles; they can assess patients' ability to improve or maintain their nutritional status, by inspecting the refrigerator and cupboards; and they are able to check the home for safety. Dr. Christopher Bolich, 37, of Egg Harbor Township, has been making house calls exclusively, since moving to New Jersey in 2002. ''I had a bunch of little ladies who dressed to the nines whenever they had an appointment with me,'' he recalled of his previous practice, in South Philadelphia. ''But I once had the occasion to go to one of their homes. It was in a state of disarray, infested with rodents, and there were no smoke alarms. When I returned to my office, I contacted her family members and investigated county programs that could assist her.''
Meanwhile, medical schools have created programs for students who want to study for a business degree simultaneously. The kind of doctor who seeks an M.B.A., moreover, appears to be changing. While the degree is still a pedigree for doctors who aspire to run a hospital or a health maintenance organization, where they may never lay hands on a patient, it is now increasingly attracting doctors who intend to keep practicing. Some solo practitioners, part of a dwindling breed, also hope a business degree will give them the financial acumen to allow them to survive by teaching them how to run their practices more efficiently. But the investment is considerable, with tuition alone in the tens of thousands of dollars. Dr. John A. Fromson, vice president of professional development for the Massachusetts Medical Society, said last week that when his organization polled its 17,000 members about whether to begin a business degree program, 10 percent expressed strong interest. The medical society, after fielding inquiries from dozens of business schools, decided to enter into a partnership with Boston University.
On a recent frozen afternoon, Dr. Rudolph Emile Tanzi, a 42-year-old neurogeneticist, was lounging at his beachfront home here near Boston, fingering the new book  ''Decoding Darkness: The Search for the Genetic Causes of Alzheimer's Disease,'' which he wrote with Ann B. Parson, a journalist. ''It's a real kick for a scientist to have a trade book in the stores,'' said Dr. Tanzi, who trained at Harvard and is now a professor of neurology at its medical school and the director of the Genetics and Aging Unit of Massachusetts General Hospital. ''Sometimes, I go down to Borders and it blows my mind to see my book sitting there next to those of well-known authors.'' Dr. Tanzi is particularly well qualified to write this book, a history of Alzheimer's disease and of the scientific battle to locate that dementia's cause and cure. In 1986, he was among the first investigators to discover the APP gene, which would later be identified as the first known Alzheimer's gene. Seven years later, he the lead investigator on the identification of the gene that causes Wilson's disease, another neurological disorder. Then, in 1995, he was part of a team that found two more genes associated with Alzheimer's.
''You've got to find it for yourself,'' she said. ''And don't spend money on it. You can get it for free. You can get if from reading. It's just the food pyramid, but people don't want to hear it. Slimfast, Optifast, you can't live like that forever. ''You eat a lot of good stuff and a little bad stuff, and you'll be fine, but you've got to have the little bad stuff, too.'' The experience of Russell M. Lomando, 47, of Brooklyn, was less dramatic, but probably more typical of the people in the study. ''I was 39 years old and I was walking up the train stairs in Brooklyn huffing and puffing,'' he said. ''I could see myself going into the grave when I was 40.'' He used to eat, he said, ''pounds of junk -- donuts and cookies and cakes, and I'm talking boxes at a time.'' One day, climbing the subway stairs, Mr. Lomando made up his mind to cut out the junk, but gradually.
''You would hope that they would find some sort of connection between the pollution and the cancer issues here in town,'' said Mr. Kotran, a stay-at-home-father whose plain and patient voice belies his family's upheavals. ''But I've been going to these meetings on almost a monthly basis for four years now and I've found that it's a very difficult and technical thing to do, especially with the chemicals involved.'' His neighbor, Mr. Anderson, a former employee of the Oyster Creek Nuclear Reactor who runs a Web site that is often critical of the investigation, says he is downright cynical about the results. ''Common sense tells you, 'Yes there's something wrong here,' but do we have the scientific ability to show the cause and effect at this present time?'' he said. ''Maybe 20 years from now we'll go back and say they were fools.'' Even public health officials caution that the conclusions will leave an element of doubt. At best the study, which relies on telephone interviews with 199 families and a painstaking reconstruction of the workings of the municipal water company, may uncover some statistical associations.
Unlike some other social conservatives, including President Bush, Mr. Romney said he did not object to scientists' obtaining stem cells from fertility clinic embryos because those would probably be discarded anyway and because they were created with the intention of helping couples generate life. Mr. Romney said he would allow research on embryos obtained from fertility clinics as long as the couples who created the embryos gave written permission, were not paid and were offered the options of rejecting research in favor of storing the embryos or giving them up for adoption. But Mr. Romney said he objected to therapeutic cloning because ''creation for the purpose of destruction is wrong.'' The governor's position runs counter to the actions that many other states are considering. After California's decision last year to invest $3 billion in embryonic stem cell research, at least seven other states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, are considering steps to encourage researchers in the field or provide economic incentives.
Indeed, the need to avoid rejection is one of the main arguments for therapeutic cloning, in which stem cells are obtained from embryos cloned from a patient's own cells. The House of Representatives has voted to ban the cloning, and the Senate is considering a ban. But some scientists say that tolerance may be achieved in the next few years, lessening the need for therapeutic cloning. ''I do not believe you will have to go to each individual patient to solve this problem,'' said Dr. Samuel Strober, a professor of immunology and rheumatology at Stanford. Others are less hopeful. ''Certainly none of those things have been perfected to the point where you can say we don't have to pursue nuclear transfer anymore,'' said Michael Werner of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, using the industry-preferred term for cloning. Many techniques that induced tolerance in mice failed in people. Some clinical trials have been halted abruptly as patients developed severe or fatal side effects.
Dr. Schoen, for one, said he was a believer. The conclusions of the adenoma detection studies were reinforced, he said, by studies finding that colonoscopies missed not just polyps but actual cancers. That finding emerged from studies testing ideas about how to prevent polyps, like taking beta carotene or calcium pills or sticking to a low fat, high-fiber diet. The patients in all the studies had at least one adenoma detected on colonoscopy but did not have cancer. They developed cancer in the next few years, however, at the same rate as would be expected in the general population without screening. ''They had had a colonoscopy already, some had even had two colonoscopies, and all of a sudden they were coming up with cancer,'' Dr. Schoen said. ''I said, Whoa. I thought colonoscopy was supposed to prevent all this.'' He concluded that no more than half the cancers arose after the initial colonoscopy. The others, he said, were probably cancers or precancerous polyps missed in the previous colonoscopy or were cancers that grew at the site of a polyp that had been incompletely removed.
Patients and their families, however, tell a different story. Erin Goldstein, legal recruiter for the McCormick Group in Arlington Va., said she turned to the Internet when doctors diagnosed a brain tumor in her mother last year. ''I was feeding in keywords as fast as I could,'' Ms. Goldstein said. It was terrifying, at first, she said, adding: ''Everything you read says, 'prognosis very poor,' 'traditional protocols showing little effect.' '' But, she said, when her mother's biopsy results came back, Ms. Goldstein at least knew what they meant and she was able to focus her Internet research. Her father, Ms. Goldstein said, ''wanted to defer to the doctor's expertise, but that really wasn't sufficient for me.'' Armed with her Internet research, she said, she peppered her father with questions: ''Why did the doctor choose this over that? I know there are these five protocols. Why aren't they doing a different surgery?''
In fact, Dr. Patz added, the patients in the new study had exactly the same survival rate as those in Dr. Henschke's study. Yet their death rate, apparently, was not affected by screening. Dr. Bach said he knew that his study's message, that lung cancer screening may do more harm than good, was difficult. But, he said, he hopes people will take it to heart and not have the screening test unless the randomized trial shows it reduces the death rate. ''It's tricky,'' Dr. Bach said. ''It's far easier to take the paradigm -- catch it early -- and apply it to all cancers. But that clearly is not an apt model for all cancers.''
Dr. Donald A. Bergman, a Manhattan endocrinologist, predicts obesity drugs will end up being overprescribed and abused. ''Some people are going to want to take them to get ready for an engagement, a TV appearance, whatever,'' he said. ''Some people are going to take advantage of the system.'' Still, Dr. Bergman, a founder of the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, said such concerns were not reason enough to discourage the development and approval of obesity drugs. The growing ranks of the obese are simply too alarming a problem, he said. ''We have to do something to save them.'' The Never-Ending Fight By the time Patricia Gallagher, a Louisville hairdresser, joined an L-Marc clinical trial last August, she was tired of shopping in what she called the ''fat lady shop.'' She had tried everything. Weight Watchers. A diet of cabbage soup. Even a four-day regimen of cauliflower, beets and hot dogs.
The print ads show a denim-clad woman standing on a lawn, with the family dog and woods behind. ''I got Lyme disease last spring and I'm being treated for serious health problems,'' the text reads. ''I couldn't prevent it then, but now you could.'' Dr. Sigal said that the results for both vaccines show they have real value as a preventive measure, but mainly in people who are directly and frequently in harm's way. ''For park rangers, campers, hunters, for people who spend lots of time in areas where there are lots of ticks, it might be something to take advantage of,'' he said. For someone who does not spend time in woods or grasslands, simply living in an area with many ticks is not sufficient reason to get the vaccine, he said. Most important, he said, those who choose to be vaccinated -- and those who do not -- should still keep doing things that cut the likelihood of a tick bite.
GERI BARISH, like so many other breast cancer survivors on Long Island, had waited for years for the results of a federal study on what connection, if any, pesticides and air pollution might have on breast cancer on Long Island. So it was no surprise that she was disappointed when the findings of the National Cancer Institute study were released last week and showed that four chemicals long suspected as potential causes of breast cancer are, in fact, probably not responsible for the Island's cancer rate, which is higher than the state and national rates. The rate in Nassau County is 115.6 cases per 100,000 women and in Suffolk County, the rate is 118.2. The state's rate is 104.1 cases per 100,000 women, and nationally, it is 109.5. For New York City, the rate is 97.2. ''Disappointed but not discouraged,'' Ms. Barish said. ''We thought this would give us all the answers, but the thing about science is it just raises more questions.''
The questions surrounding the value of mammograms in fighting breast cancer have just gotten a lot more perplexing. It was disturbing enough when two European researchers argued late last year that there were so many flaws in the studies that purport to show a benefit from mammography that the results were virtually meaningless. But last week, a panel of the nation's top experts in cancer screening agreed that the evidence justifying mammography was shaky. It was the first judgment by  authoritative independent reviewers that there may be little hard evidence to support the large breast cancer screening industry that has become a well-entrenched feature of the American medical system. For years now, both the National Cancer Institute and the American Cancer Society have been recommending regular mammograms for women over the age of 40 in an effort to detect tumors while they are still very small and easy to treat. Officials from both organizations reiterated that position Thursday, stressing that it would be premature to abandon a screening tool that they believe saves the lives of many women. But the judgment rendered by the expert panel this week makes it imperative that both organizations re-examine the evidence closely and not simply go into a defensive crouch.
The insurance debate, for now, is aimed at the obese, not those who want to lose a few pounds here and there. But that still includes 61 million Americans, nearly a third of the adult population, and 9 million of Medicare age, 65 and older. They include, for example, a woman 5 feet 5 inches tall and weighing more than 180 pounds, or a man 6 feet tall and weighing more than 221 pounds. The immediate question is whether to cover so-called bariatric surgery, which costs $30,000 to $40,000 if there are no complications, and greatly reduces how much food can be consumed and the calories that can be absorbed. But commercial diet programs as well as many obesity doctors, including members of the American Obesity Association, whose sponsors include makers of weight loss drugs as well as companies like Weight Watchers and Jenny Craig, say they want coverage for other programs, too.
''It shows me that we've got a problem with reimbursement, and if that problem isn't fixed, you're going to continue to have a growing access problem,'' Mr. Cooper said. Lobbyists are working to raise the reimbursement rate through provisions in a prescription drug bill now under consideration by the United States Senate. But more than just reimbursement is plaguing radiologists these days. Missed cancer diagnoses are among the most commonly litigated malpractice claims in medicine. ''The stress is so high because there is an unrealistic expectation that this is 100 percent accurate when it's well known that 10 percent of breast cancers don't even show up on a mammography,'' said Dr. Lawrence C. Swayne, a radiologist at Morristown Memorial Hospital. Decreasing Number of Specialists As a result, there is a growing shortage of radiologists specializing in breast imaging. A study of physicians completing radiology residencies last year found that 64 percent said they would not specialize in breast imaging because of lawsuits, low pay, high stress and the fact that breast imaging is perceived as a female field.
''The package of screening and treatment is having an impact on mortality,'' he said. While overdiagnosis may occur, Dr. Norton said, it may be balanced by better outcomes for women whose cancers are found at a stage when the treatment is more effective and less disfiguring and debilitating. The Evaluations  Should Every Test Be Questioned? Mammography, which is being subjected to vigorous debate, is one of the only screening tests that has been evaluated in clinical trials. The debate hinges on the quality of the studies that show regular screening mammograms reduce the death rate from breast cancer. Some critics say that the benefit is small, that it takes tens of thousands of women being screened for years to find a savings of a few lives and that with such a small benefit uncertainties about the study's data make them question whether the results are solid. Other experts say the studies show that mammograms can prevent deaths from breast cancer.
Both studies are being published today in The New England Journal of Medicine. One, directed by Dr. Robert Sandler of the University of North Carolina, involved 635 patients who had had colon or rectal cancer. Half took a regular, 325-milligram pill of aspirin each day, and the others took a placebo. This study ended early, because the results were so definitive: after patients had taken their assigned pills for an average of 31 months, 17 percent of those taking aspirin had new polyps, compared with 27 percent in the placebo group. The other study, directed by Dr. John Baron of Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H., involved 1,121 patients who had already had polyps, which had been removed. These patients were randomly assigned to take a placebo, a regular aspirin or a low-dose, 81-milligram aspirin each day. Three years later, at the study's end, 38 percent of the patients taking the baby aspirin had polyps, compared with 47 percent of patients taking a placebo and 45 percent of those taking regular aspirin. The researchers said they were baffled by the baby aspirin's superiority to the regular aspirin in the outcome, and by the little difference in results between the regular aspirin and the placebo.
A Maya child growing up in the United States is three times as likely to be overweight as the average American child, according to a new survey conducted by an anthropologist at the University of Michigan at Dearborn. Of about 300 Maya children ages 6 to 12 in Florida and California, 42 percent were overweight based on criteria used by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, compared with just under 15 percent of American children in the same age range, the anthropologist, Dr. Barry Bogin reported. Dr. Bogin, who has long studied patterns of growth among Maya children, presented his findings in mid-February at a symposium on the ''emerging worldwide epidemic of obesity'' at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Other panelists discussed the problem of obesity in far-flung locales like Papua New Guinea and the South Pacific. ''These Maya children are getting fat because they are not doing enough physical activity and they're eating too much food, and the health implications for when they grow up are enormous,'' Dr. Bogin said.
Of course, many women simply try to put up with menopausal symptoms, without taking pills or supplements of any kind. They dress in layers, open windows, drink cold beverages and wait it out. For some, deep breathing techniques seem to help. ''In studies, they seem to actually reduce body temperature and reduce the severity or prevent the recurrence of the hot flash,'' Dr. Grady said. Many doctors point out that a woman can reduce her risk of both osteoporosis and heart disease if she gets exercise, does not smoke, limits her alcohol intake and eats a balanced diet rich in calcium and antioxidant vitamins. ''If your symptoms are mild, it's probably better to just live with them,'' Dr. Grady said. She added that, in her experience, many women who took hormone replacement only prolonged the time they were susceptible to symptoms. Dr. Stefanick said many women might be surprised at how easily they could get by without treatment, based on what she observed among women who had stopped taking the pills. ''As we're now bringing the women off, a lot of the those who said they felt so much better taking the pills are finding out they were actually on placebo,'' she said.
Dr. John Doull, a clinical toxicologist at the University of Kansas in Kansas City, also was a member of the advisory board that reviewed the previous dioxin report. He said the agency seemed to have disregarded his group's advice. ''Their review of the critical dioxin literature is inadequate and their recommendations appear to me to be unsupported and arrogant,'' Dr. Doull said. ''This action appears to be ill-timed, political rather than scientific and is an embarrassment to science and certainly to toxicology.''
Some drug makers say they are tackling fat in response to public health warnings of a national obesity epidemic -- one that has been linked to diabetes, heart disease and other conditions and now accounts for more than $100 billion of the United States' $1.8 trillion annual medical bill. The obese are defined as those with a so-called body mass index of 30 or more. By that measure, obese people now make up one-third of the adult population. But many drug industry analysts see a potentially even bigger market if such a drug also catches on among the more than 60 percent of adults in this country who are statistically overweight, those with a body mass index of 25 or more. Many experts also see a likelihood -- some would say danger -- that such a drug might appeal to millions who are by no means fat but would like to drop a few pounds.
The study, sponsored by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, used a database of almost 2,800 people 65 and older, all tested and found free of dementia at the start of the study. The researchers tracked the progress of those who took cholesterol-lowering drugs (both statins and others) and those who did not. In the course of the study, 480 people developed dementia. But using drugs to lower cholesterol seemed to make no difference in determining which patients fell ill. The only connection the researchers found was that those who used the drugs and then stopped using them were slightly more likely to suffer dementia than those who had never used them. Even this, Dr. Rea suspects, was not due to the drugs themselves. Instead, many of these people were taken off the medicine when early symptoms appeared and drugs became a less important part of treatment. Then they were no longer taking the medicine when their dementia was actually diagnosed.
''I went into labor while I was operating at the hospital, finished up my surgery, delivered the baby, and immediately went back to work,'' Dr. Colen said. ''Because you were the only female plastic surgery resident, you had to be exemplary.'' The younger Dr. Colen, who recently had a baby, was able to use her month of annual vacation as maternity leave. There is some evidence that male and female doctors communicate differently with their patients. For example, in 1994 researchers at Northeastern University in Boston observed doctors of both sexes during 100 patient visits and found that the women were more emotionally engaged and less domineering than the men. And an analysis of data on more than 90,000 doctor's office visits nationwide from 1995 to 2000, conducted by researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, found that female physicians spent more time with patients. Dr. Sydney R. Coleman, a plastic surgeon in New York City, said he hired a young woman as an associate in 2004 in order to better communicate with patients. Now he often invites that woman, Dr. Alesia P. Saboeiro, to join in his consultations, to offer her opinion and to answer questions patients are too embarrassed to ask him, he said.
Dr. Rainville focuses on strengthening the back itself, training patients to pick up weights from the floor while keeping the legs straight, so the back bears the brunt of the movement. Dr. Lyle J. Micheli, the director of sports medicine at Children's Hospital in Boston and a doctor for the Boston Ballet, sends people to posture training, water aerobics classes and Pilates. Some physicians find it hard to push patients to exercise, because they are not sure how to motivate them, said Dr. Steven J. Linton, a professor of clinical psychology at rebro University in Sweden. ''Our research indicates that doctors seem to have a sort of 'fear and avoidance' of dealing with the psychological aspects of back pain,'' Dr. Linton wrote in an e-mail message. In a review of the research on doctors and back pain, Dr. Rainville found that in deciding on treatment, doctors are heavily swayed by their patients' resistance and their own fears of making pain worse.
And there are no easy answers. The recent mammography debates have led some experts to suggest that women and their doctors study the issues and decide for themselves, a course of action that others say is confusing. But as the debate over mammography and over other tests, like the one for prostate cancer, burn on, the childhood cancer test is giving some experts pause. The cancer was neuroblastoma, an attack on the nervous system that is one of the most common, and most lethal, tumors in children. Researchers in Japan had found that a urine test could find signs of the cancers long before symptoms appeared. A large screening program started in Japan, while studies of the test began in Quebec and Germany. At first, the results looked spectacular. Many more cancers were found, and they were found early. Children underwent surgery, usually of the adrenal gland, where the tumors tend to lodge, and their cancers went away.
Still, the studies could help lay to rest much of the controversy. The E.P.A. is widely expected to renew the permits for the crops. The question, however, is what kind of requirements growers will have to adhere to, like how much of their fields must be reserved for nonmodified crops to prevent insects from becoming resistant to the BT toxin. Until now, the study results, while they have been supplied to the E.P.A. by the industry, have been classified as ''confidential business information'' by the agency. The information has been kept from widespread public view so as not to jeopardize the chances that the papers would be published. Many scientific journals will not accept papers that have been too widely disseminated beforehand. One scientist involved in the butterfly research, Dr. Karen S. Oberhauser of the University of Minnesota, called for the E.P.A. to delay its decision until opponents of genetically modified crops had a chance to review the data.
In those early days, the evidence was clumsy and imprecise. Researchers found that when this part of the brain was destroyed, animals, and people, ate ceaselessly and grew massively obese. That happened to a 14-year-old boy seen by Dr. Steven B. Heymsfield, the deputy director of the obesity research center at St Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in New York. The boy was hit by a car while he was sledding and suffered a brain injury that destroyed the eating center of his hypothalamus. ''He became 400 pounds literally in weeks,'' Dr. Heymsfield said. In recent, carefully controlled experiments, Dr. Leibel and his colleagues Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Michael Rosenbaum discovered just how precisely the body regulates its weight. Their study involved almost 100 volunteers who had maintained a stable weight without effort for at least six months, an indication that their weights were within their biologically determined range. They agreed to live a sedentary life in a metabolic ward at the hospital while researchers controlled what they ate, making the people first gain weight until they weighed 10 percent more than their original weights and then lose weight until they weighed 10 percent less than they did when they began.
President Clinton will order all hospitals in the United States to take steps to reduce medical errors that kill tens of thousands of people each year, and he will urge states to require the reporting of such errors, administration officials said today. At the White House on Tuesday, Mr. Clinton plans to call for a nationwide system of reporting medical errors, somewhat like the system used by airlines to report aviation safety hazards, the officials said. Rather than trying to impose a federal requirement now, he is pressuring the states to adopt reporting requirements within three years. The American Medical Association and the American Hospital Association have vehemently opposed mandatory reporting of errors, saying it could expose doctors and hospitals to more lawsuits. If doctors and hospital employees fear being sued, they said, they will be reluctant to discuss the lessons that could be learned from their mistakes. Even Mr. Clinton's own advisers had suggested that the administration move cautiously.
Staten Island University Hospital, like hundreds of other community  hospitals across the country, has tried mightily in recent years to rise to the level of the large, academic medical centers nearby. It has begun clinical programs that a decade ago were unheard of in a hospital its size -- a burn center and a microsurgery unit -- and it soon will have a major heart center. It has greatly built up existing programs like cancer care and neurosurgery, hiring away from Manhattan prestigious names in those specialties and investing an extraordinary amount in equipment. To many health experts, these expansions are risky for a small community-based hospital. Support services for sophisticated new programs in areas like cancer care and heart surgery might be substandard, and existing doctors and other medical staff might lack the experience and credentials of the department heads recruited to supervise them. ''To reach the level of top-level hospitals, you can't just bring in one big name and expect that all will go with it,'' said Robert I. Field, the director of the graduate program on health policy at the University of the Sciences in Philadelphia. ''The trend now is to concentrate high-tech services into centers of excellence and leave community hospitals in their appropriate niche. So I think this is a risky strategy.''
In some cases, at least, the programs are paying off. Xerox said savings in medical costs were five times the cost of its health promotion programs. Progressive, a Cleveland auto insurer, said having fitness centers helped it attract desirable employees in a tight labor market. A variety of studies underscore the problem. One involving 17,118 members of Kaiser Permanente, the health maintenance organization, reported that annual costs of hospital care, laboratory tests, radiology and drugs were 25 percent higher among obese members. And Shell Oil, reviewing its own costs for nine years, found that as obese women grew older, their sick leaves increased at twice the rate of those who were not obese. ''We live in a toxic environment with regard to obesity,'' said Dr. F. Xavier Pi-Sunyer, director of obesity research at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. ''Food is very palatable, very cheap, very easy to get. Labor-saving devices are everywhere. Everybody is working at desks, expending a lot less energy and eating a lot more.''
''If that's the case, then we may want to be careful about any attempt to expand that window artificially,'' Dr. Wilcox said. Dr. Joseph A. Hill, director of reproductive medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, said the study added weight to the theory that prospective mothers and fertilized eggs might communicate with each other very early in the process, possibly by sending messenger proteins to ''discuss'' things like where and when to implant. ''There's a growing body of evidence that suggests that there's a cross-talk between the embryo and the mom,'' Dr. Hill said. He said the study was also valuable because it was done on women with normal fertility. Until now, most of the implantation research has involved women receiving in vitro fertilization. In many cases, women who experienced early pregnancy loss did not know they were pregnant. The study was conducted by having the patients provide urine samples every day for six months. Researchers then studied the samples for the hormones indicating fertilization and,
When Mrs. S. and I first discussed whether she should have a spiral C.T. scan to look for lung cancer, it seemed like the right thing to do. At the time, Mrs. S., a former teacher, was 73 and had no symptoms of lung cancer -- not even a cough. But she had smoked cigarettes for much of her life. Because spiral C.T. scanning is now being hailed as a way to detect early-stage, more curable lung cancers in smokers, I felt obliged to offer her the test. Mrs. S. and I extensively discussed the pros and cons of the spiral C.T., which is a new version of the traditional scan. I told her about a 1999 study that had used scanning to help find 27 lung cancers among 1,000 asymptomatic smokers and former smokers. Because these cancers were mostly confined to small areas of the lung, 60 percent of the patients had lived for five years after treatment, three times as high as is usual for people with lung cancer.
Whatever the cause, the research clearly shows that losing weight reduces all components of metabolic syndrome. Triglycerides go down, blood glucose goes down, H.D.L. goes up, hypertension goes down, the waist narrows and CRP levels drop. Kevin Fitzpatrick, 61, of Duncanville, Tex., was told that he had metabolic syndrome last May. But after six months in a clinical trial at the Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center that combined diet, exercise and three lipid-lowering drugs, he lost 25 pounds and was able to lower all of his risk factors, so that he no longer meets the diagnostic criteria for the syndrome. Recent studies of various weight-loss programs -- following a Mediterranean-style diet; taking Xenical, a prescription weight-loss drug; or undergoing surgical treatment -- have found that all these routes are effective in reducing the risk factors of metabolic syndrome and even in curing some people of the syndrome. A 2004 study in The Journal of the American Medical Association compared people who were put on a Mediterranean diet -- whole grains, fruits and vegetables, nuts and olive oil -- with a group that ate a prudent but nonspecific diet. Members of each group also increased their exercise by 60 percent.
On the domestic front, the rise in abstinence education has been paralleled by a tendency on the part of some conservatives to denigrate condoms. Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, who is also an obstetrician, has led a campaign to force condom makers to indicate on their labels that they may not prevent certain S.T.D.'s, specifically the human papillomavirus. In 2001, when he was in the House of Representatives, he issued a press release entitled ''Condoms Do Not Prevent Most S.T.D.'s.'' Sex educators say this is a twisting of data to suit an ideologically driven anti-sex agenda. ''An N.I.H. panel said condoms are impermeable to even the smallest S.T.D. viruses,'' Cynthia Dailard of Guttmacher says. Senator Coburn told me that he's not anti-birth-control: ''I'm not a no-condom person. I prescribe tons of birth control products. But that's only one-half of the issue. The other half is preventing S.T.D.'s.'' This is not the message of the federal abstinence initiative, however. The emphasis there is squarely on promoting a moral framework that puts sexuality in a particular place. As the 2007 federal guidelines for program financing state, ''It is required that the abstinence education curriculum teaches that a mutually faithful monogamous relationship in the context of marriage is the expected standard of human sexual activity.''
Given aspirin's interconnected benefits and risks in the intestinal tract, ''for the general population, it's too early to recommend that everybody take it'' for cancer prevention, Dr. Shiff said. ''It's going to take a lot more research to really answer the question.''
Dr. Gotto of Cornell, who was the lead author of a 1998 study showing that statins prevented heart attacks in patients with normal levels of L.D.L. (''bad'' cholesterol) but low levels of H.D.L. (''good'' cholesterol), said he wants to see the drugs sold over the counter soon. But pharmaceutical companies must sharpen their message to get this approved, he said. ''I think the companies need to make a case that this is not for money, but that it's a public health issue,'' he said. For some patients, statins are cramping more than just their wallets. Joyce Litchfield, a 70-year-old woman with heart disease living in Queens, started taking pravastatin, made by Bristol-Myers Squibb, two years ago. After a few months, she developed arm pain and went to her doctor. He said it was muscle inflammation caused by the drug. He told her to stop taking it, and her pain went away when she did.
She stayed in touch with relatives of other brain cancer patients through Internet chat groups, finding their experience and expertise immeasurably helpful. Others turn to the Internet to learn what their medical test results mean. When John Franz, a 42-year-old engineer who lives in Moorestown, N.J., discovered that he had an unusual pattern of blood cholesterol, he immediately turned to the Internet. He went to his doctor to discuss his research, but Mr. Franz said,  ''He didn't think it was important.''  So Mr. Franz changed doctors. ''Patients now have an active role,'' Mr. Franz said. ''With managed care you almost have to. It's up to you now, and if the doctor's not going to support that, you don't have to be involved with them.'' Finding, and Judging, Advice Online Medical experts say the most trustworthy Web sites are those run by the federal government, like http://www.nih.gov, and by national organizations like the American Heart Association.
To that end, Dr. Yang and the university are moving on to the next frontier in genetic science with the opening of a $10.6 million center at the Storrs campus to study regenerative biology. The dedication of the center -- the Advanced Technology Laboratory in the Bio Science Complex -- on Monday marked UConn's attempt to become a major player in the highly competitive field. But just as cloning touched off a debate on the moral implications of the science, regenerative biology relies heavily on another hot-button issue: stem cell technology. While the new center will focus its research on animal stem cells, Dr. Yang said that each member of its team of experts has a specific area of focus. This means that if the political environment allows, they can shift to studying human stem cells without missing a beat, he said. Dr. Yang said that he hoped eventually to take what they have learned about therapeutic cloning in animals and apply it to humans, along the way finding clues about how to treat such degenerative diseases as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's.
''Everyone knows that the death rate from breast cancer has dropped dramatically in the last 10 to 20 years,'' said Dr. Elissa J. Santoro, a breast surgeon at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. ''You can't prove that better survival is all due to mammography; it obviously has something to do with better treatments. But women are seeing their friends getting early diagnosis and surviving. The ones whose mothers or sisters died from breast cancer are especially conscious of this. It's an awareness.'' The Lancet study drew attention to the possibility that beyond unnecessary biopsies, some women diagnosed with cancer in its earliest stages may be having mastectomies or even aggressive medical treatments whose necessity is not established. But most people fear dying more than being overtreated. ''The least common call we get is from someone who can't understand why she's being offered the same drugs as someone else who's further along,'' said Cindy Pearson, the director of the Women's National Health Network.
Last month, President Bush had his third colonoscopy since 1998; it showed that he did not have cancer. In 1999, before Medicare added routine screening colonoscopy as a benefit, 4.4 million Americans had colonoscopies, according to an editorial last year in the journal Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. The editorial, by Dr. Douglas Rex of the Indiana University School of Medicine and Dr. David Lieberman of Oregon Health and Science University, estimated that another 2.6 million procedures would have to be performed annually if colonoscopy screening at age 50 became the preferred test for everyone in the United States. The current federal Preventive Services Task Force guidelines do not recommend colonoscopy for average-risk patients. New guidelines from the task force, whose recommendations tend to be followed by most insurance companies, are due on July 16. At the National Cancer Institute, Dr. Ernest Hawk, chief of gastrointestinal cancer prevention, said the institute had not studied colonoscopy's effectiveness in screening, nor did it plan to do so.
Inflammation is even believed to be a player in cancer. Tumors spread by commandeering the body's inflammatory mechanisms. Cancer cells dig into neighboring tissue in essentially the same way that inflammatory cells invade the lining of arteries, Dr. Libby said. Inflammation is also involved in angiogenesis, the growth of small blood vessels that support tumors. Researchers say it is important to find out what causes inflammation to begin with. In asthma, it appears to be airborne allergens like dust mites and cat dander. But in other diseases, the trigger is harder to discern. In atherosclerosis, many scientists believe that oxidized fat droplets, circulating in the bloodstream, irritate the artery wall. Some suspect certain viruses or bacteria. Many studies have suggested that some common viral and bacterial infections increase the risk of heart disease. The suspect bugs include Herpes Simplex 1, a virus that causes cold sores; cytomegalovirus, which typically causes no symptoms; the bacteria involved in gum disease; H. pylori, which causes stomach ulcers; and Chlamydia pneumoniae, which causes bronchitis and pneumonia. Chlamydia has been found in many arterial plaques.
They also learned, said Dr. Raymond N. DuBois of Vanderbilt, that when drugs block cox-2, they can slow cell growth, promote cell death and prevent tumors from growing blood vessels for nourishment. That is because the drugs stop cells from making prostaglandins, substances that can act like local hormones that can help cancers flourish. Dr. DuBois looked at colon polyps, and found that many were making huge amounts of cox-2. Larger polyps are considered more dangerous, more likely to turn into cancers, and they also tended to make even more of the enzyme, Dr. DuBois said. Others examined the enzyme in different types of tumors. Dr. Nasser Altorki of Weill Medical College of Cornell University said that 80 percent of lung cancer tumors made cox-2, but that the adjacent normal cells did not. Now, Dr. Hawk said, at least 90 such studies have results that are ''pretty consistent.'' Researchers looking at a wide range of cancers reported that the tumor cells were making large quantities of cox-2.
''You don't have to worry about some swift turn of events that would cause you to lose it,'' he said. ''We live in a crazy, high-velocity world, and if you're dating in New York right now, there are no road rules. It's a very tumultuous sexual arena, and it's exhausting.'' The consultant, who asked not to be named because he was uncomfortable discussing his sex life publicly, said Viagra also helped during a brief fling with a woman who enjoyed sex in public places. ''If you want to do anxiety-ridden, kinky sex, it can be really helpful,'' he said. It's a long a way from Bob Dole, the former Senator and presidential candidate who in 1998 began appearing in Viagra ads sponsored by Pfizer. The company now projects a younger image; it advertises at Nascar races, and last year it hired Rafael Palmeiro, 39, the former Texas Rangers infielder, as a spokesman. Mr. Palmeiro has said that he has tried Viagra, but didn't need it.
The researchers found that P.A.H. concentrations in the samples captured shortly after the attacks soared to some 65 times the average levels measured in city air, and the types detected tended to be those most likely to come from a source like burning wreckage. Within 100 days, however, those chemicals were largely gone, as were the fires. From then until spring 2002, the samples contained declining amounts of the varieties associated with diesel exhaust, the researchers said, and by May of that year returned to amounts typical for New York City air. At least for these hydrocarbons, the duration of potential exposure was so short, compared with a typical lifetime, that ''cancers from these chemicals is not something to worry about,'' said Dr. Stephen M. Rappaport, an author of the study and professor of environmental health at the University of North Carolina. The study, published yesterday in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, was conducted by scientists at the university and the National Exposure Research Laboratory of the Environmental Protection Agency, in Research Triangle Park, N.C. The paper can be found online at pnas.org.
But medical experts informed of the committee's conclusions, applauded them. Dr. Shaun Ruddy, chairman of the rheumatology, allergy, and immunology division at Virginia Commonwealth University's Medical College of Virginia in Richmond, said the conclusions were ''very forthright and outspoken'' and he was glad the group was attempting to put the disease hypotheses to rest. Dr. Ruddy, a past president of the American College of Rheumatology, said he had had no part in any of the litigation. The Institute of Medicine committee was set up at the behest of Congress. Its work began with a scientific workshop, a day of deliberations and then a public hearing on July 24, 1997, when almost 700 people filled an auditorium at the National Academy of Sciences in Washington. Representatives of medical professional associations made statements, scientists spoke about their research, and women with implants spoke of how their lives had been ruined. Some said they were so ill that they needed canes or wheelchairs to get around, conditions they blamed on the implants. Others testified that after they breastfed their babies, their children developed the same debilitating symptoms.
The Women At the clinic, patients allowed a reporter to attend their consultations and even operations, but most spoke only if they could use just their first names. ''It's not something I would talk about,'' said ''M,'' a high school teacher who agreed to be identified only by her middle initial. She wore a miniskirt and T-shirt, her blond hair pulled back from her forehead. She said she had never discussed abortion with relatives or colleagues. Only two friends knew she was here. ''I'd lose my job,'' she said. ''My family's reputation would be ruined. It makes me nervous even being in the waiting room. You don't want to know who's here, you don't want to be recognized, and you don't want to see them ever again. Because in society's eyes, you share the same dirty secret.'' Even most staff members at the clinic insisted on using only their first names -- ''to protect my identity from the antichoice people,'' said Lori, a nurse practitioner. Several said they had not told family members what they did for a living, or were ostracized if they had.
Declining to follow labeling instructions for a medical device is not a legal issue. The F.D.A. regulates drugs and devices, leaving doctors free to practice medicine using approved products in unapproved ways if they deem it medically appropriate. Supporters of the F.D.A. directives point to studies published in the European Journal of Radiology and the Annals of Plastic Surgery, which found that M.R.I.'s detected ruptured silicone implants with 89 percent accuracy while doctors detected them with 30 percent accuracy. ''These doctors are asking patients to embrace a risk that the patients don't even know exists,'' said Dr. Amy E. Newburger, a dermatologist in Scarsdale, N.Y., who was on the F.D.A. panel that reviewed silicone implants and voted against approval. She added that a study published in 2005 in the American Journal of Surgical Pathology, which found silicone in the lymph nodes of patients with implants, should serve as an impetus for doctors to remove ruptured implants. ''I am not saying that silicone is dangerous,'' she said. ''I am saying that we don't have the data to know yet.''
In 2001, the Food and Drug Administration sent letters to several American researchers informing them that they would have to file an Investigational New Drug, or I.N.D., application and demonstrate the safety of the technique. Although the agency would not disclose whether any researchers had made such an application, many in vitro practitioners say they believe the effort and cost will be prohibitive. ''To file an I.N.D. for nuclear transfer would cost maybe $20 to $40 million and take 10 to 12 years,'' Dr. Marrs said. Dr. Jacques Cohen, scientific director of assisted reproduction at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J., said he was preparing to apply to the Food and Drug Administration to investigate a somewhat different strategy for helping women with persistent fertility problems. His strategy, called cytoplasmic transfer, is to inject such a woman's egg with cytoplasm from another woman's egg. Presumably the shot of cytoplasm will confer healthful and youthful properties to help make the egg more fertile.
But the study has little relevance to the current understanding of how to control weight, said Dr. Stunkard, who specializes in the treatment of obesity and eating disorders. The 100 patients in the study were ''just given a diet and sent on their way,'' he said. ''That was state of the art in 1959,'' he added. ''I've been sort of surprised that people keep citing it; I know we do better these days.'' The intervening years have brought significant changes to the treatment of obesity, the most important of which, Dr. Stunkard said, has been the introduction of behavior modification techniques. Since the 1959 study, though, the statistic has been reinforced by most  other clinical studies, which also showed people with discouraging results. ''Unless we can prove they're typical, the data cannot be generalized,'' Dr. Brownell said. ''The people we see in clinics tend to be more overweight and have more psychological problems. They are more likely by a factor of two to have binge-eating problems.''
Although some scientists say obesity is a chronic illness, not all overweight people are destined to become sick. Dr. Pi-Sunyer, who headed the Federal study, estimates that 10 percent to 20 percent of overweight people are not disease prone. Dr. William H. Dietz, director of the nutrition and physical activity division at the Federal Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta, said, ''People who are overfat and have a negative family history for all the obesity-associated'' diseases ''will live to over 85 and not have any'' of these diseases. He added, ''We don't know a lot about those people.'' Dr. Pi-Sunyer said ''it varies with age'' and those who are older are more likely to have problems. Most employers have shied away from rewarding weight loss or trying to force workers to slim down. For one thing, ''researchers don't understand obesity all that well, and we don't have a permanent cure for it,'' said Carol Johnson, a sociologist who is president of Largely Positive, an advocacy group that she said ''promotes self-esteem and health among larger people.''
Readmitted to Mount Sinai, the man was sedated by a combination of antiseizure medication and the cancer itself. He was plagued by delirium and was only sporadically alert. He was in no position to reiterate his earlier decision to refuse therapy. The doctors decided that the only way to get food into the man, who was having trouble swallowing, was through a feeding tube, which has to be inserted through the nose, down the throat and into the stomach. It's uncomfortable to get it in and to have it in, and the patient kept pulling it out. The doctors restrained his hands. He pulled it out with his knees. They restrained his feet. Still he somehow managed to dislodge the tube 17 times, and each time the hospital staff replaced it. Why, Meier asked the intern in charge of the man's care, do you keep reinserting that tube, when it's so clear the patient doesn't want it?
Some experts see Mr. Smith's experience as a harbinger of a future in which cancer, while not cured, will be held in check for years by drugs tolerable enough to take on a continuing basis. ''Cancer will become a chronic disease that we will manage much the same way we manage high blood pressure or diabetes,'' said Dr. Andrew C. von Eschenbach, the director of the National Cancer Institute. Dr. Harold Varmus, president of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, warns against setting strict timetables that would create ''false expectations.'' But he agreed that it was now a ''reasonable goal to dramatically reduce death from cancer, making it a chronic disease.'' Targeted therapy is the major theme at the American Society of Clinical Oncology meeting now taking place here. There is a palpable sense of excitement that progress, although limited, is being made against even normally stubborn cancers like those of the lungs and kidneys.
In 2003, Britain plans to undertake the world's most ambitious study of the origins of disease. Looking forward to the day when people will know their genetic makeups and request a precise picture of their risks of developing various diseases, the study organizers plan to assemble a database of medical information about 500,000 Britons, including their DNA. The goal, over the next 10 to 20 years, is to sort out the way that genes and the environment combine to cause common diseases. At least six countries are preparing similar databases, in essence genetic censuses, or have already established them. Iceland, the pioneer, has collected medical data and DNA samples from 80,000 related people to hunt genes that touch off disease. It will also develop a national database from patient records in its health care system. DNA-based diagnostics and drugs could result from the effort. Britain's will be the largest of the databases proposed by governments or their private partners. It has the same goals as Iceland's but with a critical difference: for the first time, it will try to quantify the roles of genes and environmental influences like smoking, alcohol, viruses, pollution, exercise and diet in unrelated people for all common diseases. Studying a huge selection of diverse people could make its discoveries applicable worldwide. Iceland's population, by contrast, is extraordinarily homogeneous.
Victoria Schlesinger had a puzzling rash on her face, so she visited her doctor to ask what it was. The doctor told her she might have lupus, but declined to elaborate. ''She said, 'Let's not talk about it until we know,' '' Ms. Schlesinger said, a remark that only served to terrify her. ''I walked out of there thinking, 'This can't be good.' '' Ms. Schlesinger, 31, the chief counsel for the Teligent communications company in Vienna, Va., had never heard of lupus and was too intimidated to press her doctor for more information. But, like more and more patients in recent years, she also knew she had another resource. She went to her computer, typed in ''lupus'' and clicked. The Web sites that popped up were unsparing in their details about the disease, which is caused when the body's immune system attacks a patient's tissues and organs. While lupus can range from very mild to life threatening, Ms. Schlesinger found descriptions that emphasized the grim outcomes.
Now Dr. Jay Levy and his colleagues at the University of California at San Francisco are joining the study, recruiting 40 more patients. But the work is still highly preliminary, the investigators caution. ''We want to be sure people understand that we don't have data yet to show we've had a clinical benefit,'' Dr. Walker said. And, he added, the patients were unusual because almost all were found within a month of being infected with H.I.V. ''We are in no way recommending that people do this on their own, under any circumstances. This is definitely not something that's ready for people to try on their own or with their own doctor.'' Jim H. says he is one of the lucky ones. The AIDS drugs gave him terrible diarrhea and he hated the regimented schedule of taking them. ''It was just a complete change of life,'' he said. He stopped taking them in August and, so far at least, his immune system is able to keep the virus in check. He comes in once a month for tests to see if the virus is still being squelched.
Meys came to nursing late, enrolling in nursing school at SUNY Binghamton at age 36 after several years spent teaching at a middle school and traveling through Europe and Africa. His first job was at New York University Medical Center, where he worked with many cancer and AIDS patients and saw a lot of people die. ''I hate to say it, but I was put off by the way they treat some people in hospitals,'' he says. ''Some doctors did really wonderful work, but others -- well, it seemed to me that other doctors treated people past the point where you'd think it was appropriate.'' If a stroke patient had been mentally incapacitated, for instance, ''and their quality of life was what I would perceive as being pretty poor, doctors would still be drawing their blood every day, balancing this medication and that, checking to see if the potassium is too high or the calcium is too low. To me, that was just staving off the inevitable -- it didn't make any sense.''
He discovered a group of medics called 91 Bravo at Fort Detrick, Md., who are also known as the Medical Research Volunteers or Mervs whose job as soldiers is simply to serve as subjects in medical experiments. They give blood, take experimental vaccines and ingest suspect bacteria, and when they become sick they are treated on the spot. They receive special training in experimentation, detailed briefings on each experiment, and have the option of participating in some trials and not others. In contrast to civilian research on humans, the experiments on ''91 Bravo'' must be reviewed by multiple boards and officials before proceeding. And the medics themselves sometimes join on the review committees. Unethical experimentation will always be with us, Dr. Moreno wrote, but if secrecy is limited and good model experimental programs can be developed, the abuses may be limited. Correction:  July 27, 1999, Tuesday  An article in Science Times on July 13 about ''Undue Risk,'' a new history of state-sponsored unethical experimentation on humans, misstated the author's given name. He is Dr. Jonathan D. Moreno, not John.
Responding to accusations that Dr. Ho frequently criticized his colleagues' work, Mr. Asher said: ''If he's made complaints, so what? It is the duty of a physician to inform the state about other physicians that are not acting appropriately. If he has -- and we are not conceding he has -- he is on the side of truth, justice and the American way.'' Dr. Nonna Datiashvili, an internist who has admitting privileges at the hospital, decided to take her husband to Dr. Arbit to have a brain tumor excised. Nurses tried to steer her to Dr. Ho, she said. ''The nurses don't like him,'' she said of Dr. Arbit. ''I think the stigma of his past is huge. No one opened their heart to him.'' Mr. Asher said that the nurses' and anesthesiologists' dislike for Dr. Arbit underscored the necessity of the Health Department's actions. Last week, the hospital began pushing Dr. Ho to be on call for emergencies, a step he has resisted since he came to the hospital, and to submit his cases to hospital officials for review, as part of a hospital agreement with the state to subject all neurosurgery cases to institutional checks. Dr. Ho told hospital officials on Thursday that he would no longer practice at the hospital.
The company said 4 out of 70 monkeys given the drug had suffered damage to the cerebellum, the area of the brain involved in coordinated movement. Amgen called this a ''completely new finding never seen before in any of the previous studies.'' The second problem was that a handful of patients had developed antibodies that attacked the drug as if it were a germ. The danger, Amgen said, is that such antibodies might also attack the patients' own GDNF, with unknown but possibly harmful effects. But the doctors who support the drug said the cerebellum damage was not seen in people. They said the monkey damage might not have been caused by the drug and, in any case, the monkeys got a dose several times higher than people got, even though their brains are less than a 12th the size of human brains. They also said that the formation of antibodies was not uncommon with protein drugs and that so far none of the patients seems to have been harmed.
In addition to Dr. Novello's assurance of more detailed maps, the fact that the sometimes bickering advocacy groups put aside their differences to address their common issues seemed to encourage further dialogues in the future. Connie Baird, of the Islip coalition, who is a nurse, emphasized: ''It's important that we be part of any process and not left out. We just don't want scientists sitting in a room deciding what to publish.'' Dr. Novello agreed that the unprecedented meeting ''opened up important lines of communication that will continue when we meet again in April.'' Mrs. Barish, of the 1 in 9 Coalition, hopes meetings will continue. ''I told her that those of us who haven't died are still here,'' she said. ''We're relentless and we're not going away quietly.''
Many women's groups expressed cautious optimism that the announcement meant that the drug's over-the-counter sales would finally be approved. The drug is most effective when taken soon after intercourse, the reason its supporters have argued that it should be available without a prescription. Planned Parenthood, which has supported the drug's over-the-counter availability, issued a statement saying that the agency's announcement ''holds the potential for improving women's health if the F.D.A. keeps its word this time.'' But the timing of the announcement -- the day before Dr. von Eschenbach's confirmation hearing in a Senate committee -- raised skepticism on Capitol Hill about whether it might be intended to deflect criticism about delays in the drug's application without a clear guarantee of action. ''Today's announcement is nothing more than a delay tactic,'' Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Patty Murray of Washington, both Democrats, said in a joint news release. The senators are members of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, which is scheduled to hold its hearing on Dr. von Eschenbach today but is not scheduled to vote.
Terrence Tumpey is not moved by such talk. Even if the virus was to get out into the population, he says he believes it would cause far less sickness than it did in 1918. And he is sure that it is not getting out, ever, at least from his lab at the C.D.C. But whatever the danger posed by the virus in his freezer, it is literal living proof that science has crossed into an uncertain new world, where the drive to know life on its most fundamental level has given birth to the means to create it. The resurrection of the 1918 influenza virus was a team effort engaging the resources of the C.D.C. in Atlanta, an obscure military pathology lab outside Washington, D.C., an esteemed group of influenza experts at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York and one elderly Swede. Though the story has been told before, it is impossible not to begin with the Swede. In 1950, Johan Hultin, then a 25-year-old graduate student at the University of Iowa, was searching for a Ph.D. topic when he heard a visiting virologist say that the only way to solve the mystery of the 1918 pandemic would be to recover the virus from a victim who had been buried in permafrost. Hultin suddenly had a topic.
''Let's say we wanted to expand our presence into the southern New Jersey beach cities,'' Ms. Miller said. ''A drug company would set something up and we'd go out there and speak. We never say no to a speaking engagement.'' RMA also markets itself on the Internet, sends a newsletter to patients and referring doctors and runs focus groups to assess patients' satisfaction. It offers special financing programs to make fertility treatments, which can run to tens of thousands of dollars, seem affordable. RMA also has an employee whose full-time job is to be ''out there every day, banging on the doors, meeting the physicians,'' Ms. Miller said. Ms. Miller has seen how well marketing can work. In her previous job, in South Carolina, she helped get a new fertility center into the national spotlight. ''We worked hard,'' she said. The center sought out local television reporters, publicizing to the hilt the center's medical coup: one of the first pregnancies achieved with a blastocyst, an embryo that is about five days old. Fertility centers hope they can be more sure of a pregnancy if they transfer blastocysts. The center also promoted its egg donors, young women who would provide eggs for women who could not use their own.
Virtually all Americans have eaten food containing soybeans or corn containing bacterial genes that make plants resistant to herbicides or insects. But while that resistance is important to farmers, it has been trivial so far for consumers. As far as scientists can tell, the foods taste the same and are neither more healthful nor more dangerous than conventional crops. DNA-based identification, first widely used in the late 1980's, has become central to the identification of bodies, including those of people killed in the World Trade Center attack, but it is also used to resolve paternity suits and solve criminal cases. Some 342,000 paternity tests were performed in the United States last year, according to Trimark Publications, a New York market research and publishing company. Identifying fathers has become a staple of daytime talk shows. The New York-based Innocence Project says that 124 people have been freed from prison after DNA testing showed they did not commit the crime.
She and her colleagues find fetal cells by looking for male cells in tissues and organs of women who have been pregnant with boys and showing that the cells' DNA matches that of the women's sons or, if the women had abortions, their male fetuses. (Cells from female fetuses also enter a woman's body, but it is quicker and easier to find the male cells by looking for cells with a Y chromosome, Dr. Bianchi says.) One woman, for example had hepatitis C, a viral infection. But when her liver repaired itself, it used cells that were not her own. ''Her entire liver was repopulated with male cells,'' Dr. Bianchi said. Such findings astonished even Dr. Bianchi. But now, with publications in leading journals, including, last month, The Journal of the American Medical Association, few doubt her. In theory, fetal cells lurking in a woman's body are the equivalent of a new source of stem cells and could be stimulated to treat diseases. But, Dr. Bianchi says, she does not yet know for sure that the cells are stem cells -- she must isolate them and prove they can turn into any of the body's specialized cells -- nor where the cells reside, or how, short of injury, to spur them to action.
Ronald Graham  Activities coordinator, Detroit Recreation Department I have faith in the P.S.A. test. I'm 49, and I've had two P.S.A.'s, and both have been low. I'll have another one soon and when I'm 50, I'll start having them every year. The risk is much higher for African-American men. It has hit close to home for me. My dad had prostate cancer, though he didn't die of it, and also several of my golfing friends. When you're 45 years old, that's when your risk is high, and that's when you have to start having the P.S.A. test. I do outreach work on prostate cancer in the community, speaking to different churches and community groups, and just trying to bring awareness to my friends. When I tell people they need the test, they react with shock -- not so much for the blood part but the exam. A male is sometimes embarrassed to have someone examine them. But I tell them, you should think about the statistics. They show that almost twice as many African-Americans as whites die from prostate cancer.
Ms. Feldt called the drug ''the most significant technological advance in women's reproductive health care since the birth control pill.'' It was a setback for those who oppose abortions, and some of them saw it as a contradiction in Clinton administration policy. ''I think it should give people pause,'' said Dr. Richard Land, the  president of the Southern Baptist Convention's ethics and religious liberty commission. ''I wonder how they square this with making abortions safe, legal and rare,'' Dr. Land said, citing an oft-repeated Clinton administration goal. ''It will make them more plentiful and less safe.'' In its announcement, the health agency set relatively few restrictions on doctors' freedom to prescribe the drug, beyond requiring that the doctors be able to determine the length of time that a woman has been pregnant and that they make sure that women who receive mifepristone have ready access to surgical abortions, should they need them.
Dr. Goldstein, asked to speculate on the possibilities, spoke of cloning stem cells from an Alzheimer's patient. Those cells could be directed to turn into brain cells, and then analyzed to determine what goes wrong, when, and why. ''We could study their biochemistry, we could test drugs on them,'' he said. For a disease like diabetes, says Dr. Inder M. Verma, a professor of molecular biology at the Salk Institute, pancreas cells made from the patient's cloned stem cells might have the same defects as the diseased cells. They could die, just as the original pancreas cells did. Dr. Faustman adds that if diabetes is caused when the immune system attacks the pancreas, as seems likely, even replacement cells might soon be attacked and destroyed. Cloning is an arduous process, and using it to create tailor-made replacement cells may prove impractical. Cloning uses human eggs, and that means finding young women who agree to be donors. Dr. John Gearhart, a stem cell expert at Johns Hopkins University, estimated that even if there were eggs and even if scientists knew how to efficiently get cloned stem cells that match a patient and to turn them into replacement cells, it would take months, perhaps a year, to make cells for an individual patient.
''You always have to be careful about applying market forces in health care,'' Mr. Gottfried said, ''because the values of the marketplace say if something isn't a profit center we cut it out. And in health care there are things we need that are not profitable. People are trying to figure out how to change their internal culture here. It is complicated.''
Under intense public pressure to respond to public fears about anthrax, the government and the drug industry took steps yesterday to increase the production of the antibiotic Cipro and approve a broader range of drugs that fight the potentially deadly bacterium. With at least five drug makers prepared to produce generic versions of Cipro for the American market, Bayer, the German company that holds the patent on the drug, the only medicine currently approved to treat inhaled anthrax, suggested yesterday that it might be willing to allow others to make Cipro for sale in the United States. While attention continued to focus on Cipro, with several major drug companies meeting with government officials behind closed doors, the Bush administration said it was concerned that the public did not realize that there were other treatments available that could be just as effective. To drive home that message, Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, announced yesterday that the government was specifically approving two generic drugs -- doxycycline and penicillin -- to treat people who have inhaled the microbes that cause anthrax.
''By the time they come here, they've already gone to places to look better,'' Dr. Raffaele said. ''They've had the Botox, the plastic surgery. The reason they're here is they want to have a good quality of life.'' Most keep their visits a secret, he said, adding: ''They don't even want to tell their close friends. It's kind of like plastic surgery.'' They are like a 50-year-old woman living in New York who arrived at the doctors' anti-aging clinic last February. ''I was feeling desperate,'' said the woman, who did not want to give her name because she is keeping the treatment secret from her friends. She was depressed, gaining weight, feeling old and fatigued. But, she said, when she began taking growth hormone, estrogen and progesterone, she noticed an immediate change in her mood and energy. It gave her the stamina and enthusiasm to start dieting and working out at a gym and she dropped 10 pounds. She said her libido returned, her hair grew, and even her bunions regressed so she could wear high heels again.
But others note that treatment for most of these men -- state-of-the-art care from the Mayo Clinic -- was hardly typical and that the findings were not statistically significant. ''This study offers circumstantial evidence that P.S.A. screening may save some lives,'' said Dr. Feldman of the American Cancer Society, ''but the test's usefulness will remain unclear until we have results from controlled clinical trials.'' Such studies are now under way. One such trial, sponsored by the National Cancer Institute, involves 75,000 men ages 55 to 75; half of them will be screened regularly for prostate, lung and colon cancer for up to 14 years, and half of them will not be screened. A similar large-scale study is under way in Europe. In the meantime, middle-aged and older men are left to mull over their choices. For those who choose to take the P.S.A. test and discover they have prostate cancer, a nonaggressive approach, known as watchful waiting, may be recommended, especially for elderly men. But in practice, few people who know they have cancer can resist the urge to be treated for it. Men who think they would be devastated by a diagnosis of cancer or by the possible complications of treatment must decide whether P.S.A. testing is for them.
Should society invest its limited resources in such patients? Someone else wondered whether a defibrillator was even appropriate for those patients. After all, wasn't sudden death a better way to die than struggling for breath as congestive heart failure filled lungs with fluid? The discussion went on, back and forth, for more than an hour. It distilled some of the ethical questions that cardiologists are beginning to face as more and more expensive devices become available to treat very sick patients. Unfortunately, most of these patients will not live very long, with or without devices. For example, in a study published in The New England Journal of Medicine in 2001, mechanical pumps called left-ventricular assist devices prolonged life by an average of eight months in patients with advanced heart failure. Half of the 68 patients in the study who received devices were alive one year later, compared with a quarter of those treated with medication alone. But those who lived longer spent much of their extra time in the hospital.
Dr. Lana Skirboll, director of science policy at the National Institutes of Health, said that the mouse work adds ''nothing that would suggest the the N.I.H. back off from its position that pluripotent stem cells are not in and of themselves embryos.'' The institutes uses the term ''pluripotent stem cells,'' she said, because the phrase '''embryonic stem cells' sounds like an embryo.'' Nonsense, says Dr. Lee Silver, a mouse geneticist at Princeton University. If what matters, as the Government lawyers wrote, is ''the capacity to develop into a human being,'' then human embryonic stem cells are the moral equivalent of embryos. ''Metaphysically, it's all the same,'' Dr. Silver said, who complained that he is offended by the winking and nodding of scientists who do not want to admit the potential of the cells to become babies. Dr. Silver's position on the nature of stem cells is supported by Dr. Andras Nagy, the University of Toronto scientist who created mice out of stem cells six years ago in collaboration with a colleague, Dr. Janet Rossant. ''I don't think there's a theoretical or practical impossibility of creating a completely stem-cell derived human being, if one wanted to do that,'' he said.
The most famous of these trials, at the Mayo Clinic, showed how misleading survival can be. Although the 10-year survival rate doubled with screening, mortality was not reduced; indeed, screening may have increased it. The Mayo trial also showed that more than a decade after screening was stopped, there were still more cancers in the screened group. This shouldn't happen: in two large randomly selected groups, there should be the same number of cancers in both. The chest X-rays must have detected some lung cancers that were never destined to cause symptoms or death -- a phenomenon known as overdiagnosis. This phenomenon challenges our conventional view of cancer as an inexorably progressive disease. Research in screening has demonstrated that what pathologists call cancer encompasses a broad spectrum of disorders: some cancers rapidly progress to death, some do so more slowly, and some don't progress at all (or may even regress).
Editors say that a database could offer several benefits. Assigning a test a unique number could allow it to be tracked from start to finish. The results, be they positive or negative, could then be put into context with other relevant trials of the same drug. Moreover, journal editors say that if a trial's objectives were listed at the outset, they would know how to better assess an article that presented its results. ''It would be useful for us from an editorial perspective if trials were registered, so we could see what was on the mind of investigators when they started,'' said Dr. Jeffrey M. Drazen, the editor of The New England Journal of Medicine. Some critics, however, have argued that medical journals themselves have been a part of the problem. A growing number of studies in recent years have shown that journals publish more trials with positive results than those with negative or inconclusive ones. And critics say the journals have moved too slowly to address such issues.
By the time I applied for residency training in 1996, primary care was hot. More than half of all doctors graduating from medical school that year entered a primary care residency: either family practice, pediatrics or internal medicine. The enthusiasm was fueled by three decades of research showing that primary care doctors delivered care that was, in many ways, better than that provided by specialists. A widely touted 1996 report issued by the Institute of Medicine described primary care as the future of sound medical care. ''Primary care improves the quality and efficiency of care and expands access to appropriate services,'' the authors summarized. ''It also forms an important bridge between personal health care and public health, to the advantage of both.'' The report cited research showing that people treated by primary care physicians spent less time in the hospital, had fewer visits to the E.R. and had fewer procedures and tests. Yet they were healthier and happier with their care than those without these doctors. ''Big doctoring,'' it turns out, was also good doctoring, and now we had the data to prove it. The success of primary care moved the generalists, who had long played second fiddle to the specialists, to center stage. There was even talk of a National Primary Care Day to encourage medical students to go into this specialty in order to meet the expected demand. And then, just as quickly as it began, it all came apart. The trend peaked the next year, teetered and then crashed.
Setting up a political battle over stem cell research, Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts said this week that he would propose legislation to outlaw a type of embryonic stem cell research that is being planned by laboratories at Harvard University and other institutions in the state. The governor's remarks came as Democratic lawmakers were introducing legislation that would promote embryonic stem cell research, partly in an effort to keep the state's large stable of research scientists and biotechnology companies from moving to California or other states that are providing support or financial incentives for such research. The president of the Massachusetts Senate, Robert E. Travaglini, a Democrat, introduced such a bill on Wednesday, saying he wanted ''to send a clear message that we are going to authorize this kind of research.'' His bill would change a 30-year-old law that made it harder to conduct stem cell studies because it required the approval of county district attorneys, and would embrace research on stem cells derived from embryos. Future bills may offer scientists financial incentives, Mr. Travaglini said.
Seventy-five percent of the time, the biopsies are coming back nonmalignant. The P.S.A. gives you a lot of false positives. The problem is most of my patients want to know why they shouldn't be tested once every six months. I try to discourage that. Prostate cancer is not a fast-spreading tumor. I'm comfortable with once a year. Sometimes, if you tell patients to have a P.S.A. only once a year, they feel you're ignoring them. If you told someone to come back in two years, it's almost like you don't want them in your practice. This has changed. When they started doing P.S.A. tests 10 to 12 years ago, you had a deuce of a time getting anybody to go and get a blood test. Then pharmaceutical companies began advertising it. Gradually, it took on a life of its own. I have one fellow who is a prominent lawyer. He's had prostate cancer, but now his number is absolutely perfect. It's 0.1. But it's taken me three years to talk him out of having a monthly P.S.A.
And while more young people are obese these days, leaving open the possibility that they will develop cardiovascular disease in large numbers, they are also more likely than past generations to have their blood pressure and cholesterol levels under control. Obesity may also lead to diabetes, which increases the risk of cardiovascular disease. But Dr. Manolio said it was not yet known whether controlling blood sugar with medications would reduce the risk of heart attacks and strokes. Dr. Gordon, of the heart institute, said the growing numbers of obese people would not necessarily set off a new epidemic of heart attacks and strokes. ''I wouldn't paint such a dire picture,'' he said. The data on death rates do not show whether fewer people are developing cardiovascular disease in the first place -- which is, of course, the goal. With better methods of detection, doctors are picking up heart attacks and strokes that would have gone unnoticed in previous years. This means that the data from one year to the next are not comparable. But it does suggest that the overall incidence is declining.
The fall that DeNino returned to the lab, Poehlman was looking into how fat levels in the blood change with age. DeNino's task was to compare the levels of lipids, or fats, in two sets of blood samples taken several years apart from a large group of patients. As the patients aged, Poehlman expected, the data would show an increase in low-density lipoprotein (LDL), which deposits cholesterol in arteries, and a decrease in high-density lipoprotein (HDL), which carries it to the liver, where it can be broken down. Poehlman's hypothesis was not controversial; the idea that lipid levels worsen with age was supported by decades of circumstantial evidence. Poehlman expected to contribute to this body of work by demonstrating the change unequivocally in a clinical study of actual patients over time. But when DeNino ran his first analysis, the data did not support the premise. When Poehlman saw the unexpected results, he took the electronic file home with him. The following week, Poehlman returned the database to DeNino, explained that he had corrected some mistaken entries and asked DeNino to re-run the statistical analysis. Now the trend was clear: HDL appeared to decrease markedly over time, while LDL increased, exactly as they had hypothesized.
Ms. Howard's fianc, 45, whom Ms. Howard would not name, got home from work at 6 a.m. At 7 a.m., Ms. Howard drove to the infertility clinic with a vial of his sperm. She waited for about an hour, she said, while the sperm was prepared. Finally Ms. Howard was called from the waiting room. A woman, who she said she believed was a lab technician, handed her a tube of sperm with a pink cap and told her to go into the examination room. There was no label on the tube, and the woman did not ask Ms. Howard to verify that this was the correct vial, Ms. Howard said. For seven or eight minutes, Ms. Howard held the tube of sperm between her breasts to keep it warm until the doctor arrived. ''You lay on the table and imagine what the next three months are going to be like,'' Ms. Howard said.
Many patients also test positive for Lyme disease, Dr. Stricker has found; certain antibacterial and antiparasitic medications sometimes seem to alleviate the symptoms, he said. But doctors said that after testing the skin extrusions, laboratories routinely dismiss them as plant or textile material. ''You send away the blood work and specimens, you don't get anything back,'' said Dr. Neelam Uppal, a physician in St. Petersburg, Fla., who treated Ms. Koch and has seen a dozen other patients with similar symptoms. ''I feel it's a parasite, perhaps a fungus,'' Dr. Uppal said. ''You have to give patients the benefit of the doubt.'' Despite hints of a physical cause, most patients are eventually confronted with a psychiatric diagnosis. The symptoms bear a close resemblance those of delusional parasitosis, a disorder in which sufferers, often drug abusers, believe they are afflicted with hidden parasites and resist all evidence to the contrary. Researchers have found that delusions like this can be passed from primary patients to secondary ones, usually susceptible family members or close associates. Psychiatrists call this phenomenon folie a deux.
Researchers told him it was obvious why the monkeys remained healthy. Unlike people, whose immune systems are unable to fend off AIDS viruses, resulting in millions of viruses in each drop of blood, the monkeys' immune systems must be squelching the viruses. But that turned out to be wrong. The monkeys had huge numbers of viruses in their blood. Then scientists said the viruses must not kill the monkeys' cells. But that too was wrong, Dr. Feinberg said. The viruses were constantly killing enormous numbers of cells. The monkeys simply replaced them. The same is true for wild cats, said Dr. O'Brien, the cat expert. The animals have enormous numbers of viruses in their blood and tolerate the viruses' more or less constant killing of their white blood cells. Dr. O'Brien said it was a predictable adaptation, with a clear implication for the human AIDS epidemic. ''When a virus gets into a population, like H.I.V. jumped into humans, it can kill off the species or not,'' Dr. O'Brien said. ''If it does not, either the virus becomes weakened or the species changes.''
The world's largest organization of cancer doctors began its annual meeting here today by calling for the eventual elimination of tobacco from the world. Scientists here also presented new data showing that elderly cancer patients tended to receive less chemotherapy or radiation treatment than younger patients received, even though older patients might benefit just as much. The elderly are also underrepresented in clinical trials of new drugs, the studies show. The organization, the American Society of Clinical Oncology, called for the establishment of an independent commission to draft a blueprint to achieve a tobacco-free world. The commission would consist of representatives from the public and private sectors and would probably propose new regulations on tobacco and its contents, restrictions on cigarette advertising and measures to discourage exports of American tobacco products. The society also recommended more immediate measures, like raising taxes on cigarettes and requiring disclosure of their ingredients. ''We're cancer doctors,'' Dr. Paul A. Bunn Jr., the president of the society, said in an interview. ''We get frustrated seeing the devastation caused by tobacco products.''
Participants: Lenny GUARENTE, PH.D.: Novartis professor of biology at M.I.T. and author of ''Ageless Quest: One Scientist's Search for Genes That Prolong Youth.''; Robert N. BUTLER, M.D.: Founding director of the National Institute on Aging, a founder of the Alzheimer's Disease Association and winner of a Pulitzer Prize in 1976 for ''Why Survive? Being Old in America.'' He heads the International Longevity Center.; SARA DAVIDSON: Author, most recently, of ''Leap! What Will We Do With the Rest of Our Lives?'' Dr. GUARENTE, scientists like J. Craig Venter, one of the first to map the human genome, feel that increasing life span should not be the goal of science. Why are you attempting to prolong life? LENNY GUARENTE: The research that I'm involved in is not about extending life after people are infirm. I don't think of life span as the gold standard. The gold standard is health span. All the indicators from the laboratory are that the genes we're studying and the kinds of drugs we would be developing would extend health span. If you can extend health span, and you also happen to extend life span, so be it. That's a side benefit.
Protection against biological and chemical attack was never very high on lists of national priorities -- until the days after Sept. 11, when it collectively occurred to Americans how vulnerable they were. An envelope that might (or might not) be filled with ominous powder, the possibility that someone might slip across a border with a jar of viruses, the impossibility of guarding every subway entrance and roof ventilator against a terrorist with a spray can: ''In these times,'' said Dr. Frank Bia, an expert on infectious diseases and microbiology at Yale, ''the unthinkable has become thinkable.'' Here are assessments of the nation's ability to defend itself against germ warfare from a variety of perspectives, covering what has been done, what is being done, where gaps remain, what might be done to fill them -- and how quickly. Antibiotics and Antitoxins Even as government and industry are working to increase production of known treatments for potential biological weapons like smallpox and anthrax, scientists are trying to develop additional weapons.
Cloning, which can create an embryo by inserting an adult's genetic material into a female egg, arouses intense opposition from those who regard it as immoral to circumvent the normal reproductive fusion of sperm with egg or who deem it unethical to create a baby with the identical genes of an adult donor. But whatever one's views of these deeper issues, cloning techniques are still far too primitive to risk trying in human guinea pigs. In cloning, scientists remove the nucleus from a woman's egg and replace it with genetic material taken from an adult's cell. They then stimulate the egg to form an embryo and implant the embryo in a woman's uterus, where in theory it should develop into a fetus and subsequently a newborn baby. The trouble is, a lot can go wrong in this process from beginning to end. Dolly, the famous cloned sheep, was born in 1997 only after hundreds of cloning attempts had failed in miscarriages, stillbirths or early genetic deaths. Although techniques have improved since then, almost 40 percent of all cloned goats have died prematurely.
The phytoestrogens, derived from plants -- usually soy but also red clover -- are a more complicated story. Some women find they can lessen their hot flashes by eating a diet rich in soy, and many doctors consider that a sensible strategy because the amount of phytoestrogen that can be consumed in foods is probably no more than 80 to 100 milligrams a day, a relatively low dose. But soy supplements in pill and powder form may contain 500 to 600 milligrams of phytoestrogens. Because these estrogens attach to the same receptors that pharmaceutical hormones act on, the possibility exists that they, too, could affect breast tissue and heart health. ''Concentrated preparations concern me a lot because their biological effects are unknown,'' Dr. Norton said. ''Just because something is natural doesn't mean it's safe.'' The studies that have been done on concentrated phytoestrogens suggest that they are little better than placebos in fighting hot flashes.
But others, like David Freedman, a statistician at the University of California, said he was not convinced. Professor Freedman said the statistical method the Danish researchers used, pooling data from many studies and using a statistical tool called metanalysis to examine them, could give misleading results. ''I just don't find this report to be incredibly persuasive,'' he said. ''The evidence of a placebo effect is maybe a little bit less than I thought it was, but I think there's a big effect in many circumstances. This doesn't change my mind.'' The researchers said they saw a slight effect of placebos on subjective outcomes reported by patients, like their descriptions of how much pain they experienced. But, Dr. Hrobjartsson said, he questions that effect. ''It could be a true effect, but it also could be a reporting bias,'' he said. ''The patient wants to please the investigator and tells the investigator, 'I feel slightly better.' ''
Because of the patent application on the cloning process that produced her, Dolly's birth was kept secret for months. Then, on Feb. 27, 1997, a paper titled, ''Viable Offspring Derived from Fetal and Adult Mammalian Cells'' appeared in the British journal Nature, and Dolly became a celebrity. She also changed research priorities overnight. ''This experiment made people think very differently about biology,'' Dr. Wilmut said. ''It is one of the things that made people much more ambitious and optimistic'' about using stem cells as replacement cells for humans. The idea was to start the cloning process, then take the ball of cells after just a few days and extract embryonic stem cells. Those cells would then be used to generate tissues and organs that would match an individual's. But such research does not result in the birth of babies, or even the development of fetuses. Dolly also gave rise to fears that researchers would clone humans.
Q. What was your second cancer? A. It was prostate. This was nearly three years ago. It's ironic, isn't it? I had spent my career working on prostate cancer, and what do I get? But it's not surprising. With my father's history, I always knew I was at risk. Like my father, I was diagnosed at age 57. I had skipped over going for my prostate specific antigen, my P.S.A. test. I was having some back pain, and I saw someone for physical therapy. She said, ''What's your P.S.A. like?'' ''I haven't had one in a while,'' I confessed. She said, ''You should know better.'' I took the test, and my levels weren't good. So I had to go through what I had to go through. Q. How did you treat your prostate cancer? A. A radical prostectomy. The thing about getting cancer is that it makes you so much more aware of your vulnerability.
So had many researchers. Until now, they have tended to focus on the initial cancer treatment. But now, defining a survivor as anyone who has received a diagnosis of cancer, the focus is much wider. There are now nearly 10 million cancer survivors in this country, up from 3 million in 1971 and 6 million in 1986. Many live for years or decades, and it is becoming impossible to ignore their needs and unanswered questions about their lives. Now, federal officials for the first time are hoping to figure out exactly who these cancer survivors are, how they should be treated, what their psychological states are, and what their medical and social needs are. The survivors, and their doctors, need to know what to do when the initial treatment is over. How should they be screened, and how often? What are the consequences of chemotherapy and radiation years or decades later?
The true failure rate could be much better, or much worse, he said. ''The fact is that we just don't know.'' The new research on successful dieters will disappoint those hoping for a magic-bullet solution; most had simply eaten less, and healthier, food, and exercised regularly. But judging by their accounts, it is entirely possible for people without the resources to hire personal trainers and chefs to accomplish permanent weight loss. For inspiration, it would be difficult to surpass the story one of the participants in the Weight Control Registry, Tammy Munson, a 32-year-old receptionist and ambulance dispatcher from Jamestown, N.Y., who lost 147 pounds and has kept it off for eight years. At 5 feet 4 inches tall and 185 pounds, she was overweight throughout high school, but ballooned to 253 after she graduated and got married. She knew little about nutrition, she recalled, and ''didn't even realize that liquid had calories.''
''What used to be thought of as pathways that led pretty explicitly to one particular disease outcome can now be seen as leading to a whole lot of different outcomes,'' said Dr. Robert M. Sapolsky, a professor of neurology at Stanford. Central to this new understanding is a novel conception of stress, developed by Dr. McEwen, who has been studying the subject for more than three decades. According to his model, it is not stress per se that is harmful. Rather, the problems associated with stress result from a complicated interaction between the demands of the outside world and the body's capacity to manage potential threats. That capacity can be influenced by heredity and childhood experience; by diet, exercise and sleep patterns; by the presence or absence of close personal relationships; by income level and social status; and by the piling on of normal stresses to the point that they overload the system.
The traditional way of dealing with viruses, and in many cases the most effective, has been through vaccines, which prevent illness. But scientists say drugs are still needed to treat infections after they occur because it is impractical to vaccinate everyone against every conceivable virus. For example, the government's effort to vaccinate health care workers against smallpox has fallen well behind its goals, in part because the vaccine itself can have harmful side effects. And for some viruses, vaccines do not exist. But if the need for antiviral drugs is growing, so are the tools to make them. These have been largely honed in the war against AIDS. Scientists have learned a lot about how viruses work and how to design drugs to stop them. And the complete genetic sequence of a virus can now be determined in days -- as was done for the SARS virus -- providing clues for mounting an antiviral attack.
Today, an estimated one-fourth of primary-care doctors use electronic health records, but only 5 percent of them are in offices with five doctors or fewer -- where about half of all doctors practice. Dr. Anne Wilson has her own internal-medicine practice in Rockville, Md., and has felt the pinch of reimbursement cutbacks from Medicare and other insurers. Buying computers and software for electronic health records, Dr. Wilson said, would mean a big cost with no clear payoff. ''I can't capture the economics of scale as a sole practitioner,'' she said. ''Electronic health records may well be a good thing, as a collective good, but why should I make the investment if I don't get any of the gains?'' Physicians get only about 11 percent of the savings from electronic health records; the real benefit goes mainly to private and public insurers because, for one, they are paying for fewer unnecessary tests, and automated record-handling is a big cost saving for the payers, according to a study by the Center for Technology Leadership, a medical research group. ''The doctors bear all the costs, and others reap most of the benefit,'' said Dr. David J. Brailer, who was the national health information technology coordinator in the Bush administration from 2004 to 2006. ''The incentives are totally awry.''
In one small experiment, published in The New England Journal of Medicine last year, both obese and lean volunteers received a single intravenous infusion of the hormone. At a buffet lunch later that day, they ate 30 percent less than those who received a placebo. But it is not known whether taking the hormone every day would lead to sustained weight loss. In a recent paper in the journal Nature, a large group of scientists questioned the hormone's potential, saying that they were unable to replicate earlier results from studies on rodents showing that the hormone lessened food intake and weight gain. Nastech, based in Bothell, Wash., will initially receive $5 million from Merck and will be eligible to receive up to $341 million more if the drug obtains various approvals and meets certain sales targets. Nastech would also receive royalties on sales and would be able to help market the drug in the United States.
Doing so, the authors asserted, would lay the foundation for a healthier and wealthier country, a so-called longevity dividend. ''The demographic wave entering their 60s is enormous, and that is likely to greatly increase the prevalence of diseases like diabetes and heart disease,'' said Dr. S. Jay Olshansky, an epidemiologist at the University of Illinois at Chicago, and one of the paper's authors. ''The simplest way to positively affect them all is to slow down aging.'' Science, of course, is still a long way from doing anything of the sort. Aging is a complicated phenomenon, the intersection of an array of biological processes set in motion by genetics, lifestyle, even evolution itself. Still, in laboratories around the world, scientists are becoming adept at breeding animal Methuselahs, extraordinarily long lived and healthy worms, fish, mice and flies. In 1935, Dr. Clive McCay, a nutritionist at Cornell University, discovered that mice that were fed 30 percent fewer calories lived about 40 percent longer than their free-grazing laboratory mates. The dieting mice were also more physically active and far less prone to the diseases of advanced age.
For women who want or need even more finely tuned regimens, doctors can turn to so-called compounding pharmacies, which are scattered around the country and will prepare made-to-order hormone replacement therapy in the form of pills, pellets that can be placed under the skin, or creams that can be rubbed on the skin. ''This is a niche market,'' said Dr. Joanna Cain, director of the Center for Women's Health at Oregon Health and Science University in Portland. ''But it's one more way to individualize treatment.'' Many doctors say they are determined to continue using hormone therapy, noting that the dangers discovered in the Women's Health Initiative trial were small and that no greater risk of death was found among the women taking hormones. The doctors contend the therapy offers broad benefits beyond the treatment of hot flashes. Though no hard evidence shows that hormone replacement therapy softens the skin, prevents wrinkles and tooth loss, evens out moods, or confers a general feeling of youthfulness, women often say they experience these benefits. They also say the drugs help them think more clearly and remember things better.
If nothing else, the removal of the painkiller Vioxx from the market last week served as a reminder that new drugs sometimes turn out to have unforeseen side effects after a few years of widespread use, and it makes sense to use them with caution. ''When we weigh the risks and benefits of medication, the word new has to be added to the risk side,'' said Dr. Susan Louisa Montauk, of the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine. ''That does not mean that one should never use a new drug, but it does make it a risk because major concerns can come up as long as 8 to 10 years down the line.'' But in the wake of Vioxx's withdrawal, many patients and doctors are trying to decide what to do next. Merck's drug, an anti-inflammatory belonging to the class called cox-2 inhibitors, was used by more than two million people for, among other things, arthritis, pain and the possible prevention of colon cancer.
Researchers then asked whether patients who have M.R.I.'s do any better. In a study published last year in The Journal of the American Medical Association, Dr. Deyo and his colleagues randomly assigned 380 patients with back pain to X-rays or M.R.I.'s. X-rays can reveal tumors or fractures but not abnormal disks. Half the M.R.I. patients had disk abnormalities, and the imaging patients, as a group, ended up with more intensive treatment -- more doctor visits, physical therapy, acupuncture and chiropractic manipulations as well as more surgery. And while they were happier with their care, they fared no better than the X-ray patients. Within a few months, most patients in each group were feeling better and were back at work. Many in each group continued to feel some pain but were living with it. ''Many continue to have grumbling symptoms and occasional flare-ups,'' Dr. Deyo said. ''Their pain was better but certainly not gone.''
One reason there are no clear rules about the responsibilities of co-authors is that their reputations have sometimes been unfairly tarnished when accusations of fraud arise. In 1986, the Nobel laureate David Baltimore found himself caught in a bitter dispute, after his colleague Dr. Thereza Imanishi-Kari was wrongly accused of faking data. Dr. Baltimore defended her vigorously. But he came under increasing attack, and in 1991, he issued a mea culpa in a letter to the National Institutes of Health. ''The better course would have been to suspend further comment on the matter until I had a full opportunity to review and digest all of the new information,'' he wrote. ''I now recognize that I was too willing to accept Dr. Imanishi-Kari's explanations and to excuse discrepancies as mere sloppiness. Further, I did too little to seek an independent verification of her data and her conclusions.'' As it turned out, after a long, bitter inquiry by the federal government, Dr. Imanishi-Kari was exonerated in 1996. Dr. Baltimore, who is now president of the California Institute of Technology, said that victory was ''bittersweet.''
The study examined two reporting periods, 1988 to 1994 and 1999 to 2002. Among adults, the study found, tooth loss declined between the two periods, as did the prevalence and severity of dental decay, a finding that held across sex, race, poverty, and educational levels. For children ages 6 to 19, the use of dental sealants, plastic coatings applied to teeth to protect them from decay, increased 64 percent, and cavities in permanent teeth declined an average of almost 15 percent. The youngest children did not fare as well. Children ages 6 to 11 showed only a 36 percent increase in the number of sealed teeth between the two study periods, and children ages 2 to 5 had a 5 percent increase in the number of cavities. The rise was particularly acute in white, non-Hispanic children, who saw their average number of cavities increase by more than 15 percent, and in children living below the federal poverty line, whose average number of caries increased by more than 13 percent.
After some planning, he found what seemed like an ideal site in the remote settlement of Brevig Mission on Seward Peninsula in Alaska. In a mere five days in November 1918, 72 of the 80 residents of Brevig died and were later buried in a mass grave. Hultin arrived there alone, obtained permission to dig up the grave and after two days of hacking through frozen ground came across the preserved body of a little girl in a blue dress, red ribbons in her hair. He and some colleagues eventually found four more bodies and cut out samples of their pocked and peppered lungs, keeping them frozen with dry ice exuded from fire extinguishers. Back in Iowa, Hultin injected a solution of the lung tissue into fertilized chicken eggs -- a standard method for growing flu virus -- and inoculated mice, rats and finally ferrets, which have a peculiar susceptibility to human flus. Nothing worked. If the virus was there at all, it was dead. So was Hultin's Ph.D. thesis. He gave up, went to medical school and enjoyed a successful career as a pathologist in San Francisco. In his spare time he traveled all over the world, invented auto-safety equipment, restored archaeological sites, built a replica of a 14th-century Norwegian cabin in the Sierras (it took him 36 years) and did research on Mount Everest. But he never forgot about the one time in his life that he failed.
They can see now that Johanna Huden arrived first in that place of fear and fog. For weeks after the wedding, despite repeated visits to doctors and emergency rooms, her infection worsened and the cause of her illness was missed. And no one knew. Florida  A First Case To Investigate Every disease outbreak tells a detective story. The epidemiologist's job is to piece together the narrative threads -- to work back to the beginning and so hasten the end. Assume nothing; let the evidence speak for itself. That gumshoe credo was very much on Dr. Bradley A. Perkins's mind as the chartered jet roared toward South Florida on the afternoon of Oct. 4, carrying his 12-member team from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. Dr. Perkins, a boyish-looking 42, chief of the centers' special pathogens branch, sat at a small conference table, chatting with the adrenaline-pumped scientists and passing around the latest papers on anthrax. But mostly he tried to concentrate on telling himself not to think about terrorists.
The heart disease findings from the Women's Health Initiative have confounded the medical community because in past decades, observations of women who were taking hormone therapy suggested that the treatment might lower a woman's risk of heart disease by as much as 40 to 50 percent. Consequently, throughout the 1980's and 1990's, many doctors prescribed supplemental hormones to help lower their patients' risk of heart disease. The question remains whether hormone therapy with estrogen alone might have fewer ill effects -- or more benefits -- than therapy that also includes progestin. These risks and benefits are being studied in a second clinical trial by the Women's Health Initiative, which is to run until 2005. But a second study published in today's New England Journal casts doubt on the idea that estrogen without progestin could protect the cardiovascular system. This clinical trial included 226 postmenopausal women with atherosclerosis. Some were given estrogen and progestin, some were given estrogen alone and the rest were given no hormones.
Still, most industry interest has been in H.I.V, hepatitis B and C and influenza. It remains unclear whether they will deem it worth the effort to develop drugs for other viruses. That includes SARS, caused by a type of coronavirus, since experts still do not really know whether it will become a major problem or just a sporadic one. Dr. Norbert Bischofberger, executive vice president for research and development at Gilead, said that he was ''100 percent confident'' that his company could develop a drug for SARS but that he did not expect to do so, because he thought that the disease would not be a major one. ''To do something against this coronavirus takes the same amount of effort as any other target,'' he said. ''At the end, you would not have a product that you could sell.'' There are several reasons the development of antiviral drugs has lagged behind that of antibacterial drugs. Bacteria are self-contained living creatures. They have a range of metabolic functions and structures that can be disrupted to kill the organism. Many of these functions or structures are different enough from their human equivalents that they can be attacked without harming the person taking the drug.
In the meantime, M.I.T. and the Children's Hospital have licensed Dr. Rupnick's patent, with Dr. Langer and Dr. Folkman listed as co-inventors, to Repair Inc., a Boston company. Patents
''Calorie restriction is doomed to fail, and will make people miserable in the process of attempting it,'' said Dr. Jay Phelan, an evolutionary biologist at the University of California, Los Angeles, and a co-author of the paper. ''We do see benefits, but not an increase in life span.'' Mice who must scratch for food for a couple of years would be analogous, in terms of natural selection, to humans who must survive 20-year famines, Dr. Phelan said. But nature seldom demands that humans endure such conditions. Besides, he added, there is virtually no chance Americans will adopt such a severe menu plan in great numbers. ''Have you ever tried to go without food for a day?'' Dr. Phelan asked. ''I did it once, because I was curious about what the mice in my lab experienced, and I couldn't even function at the end of the day.'' Even researchers who believe calorie restriction can extend life in humans concede that few Americans are likely to stick to such a restrained diet over a long period. The aging of the body is the aging of its cells, researchers like to say. While cell death is hardwired into every organism's DNA, much of the infirmity that comes with advancing years is from an accumulation of molecular insults that, experts contend, may to some degree be prevented, even reversed.
So while women in rural areas must sometimes drive hundreds of miles to the nearest clinic, in cities and suburbs there are price wars and competition over amenities. Doctors have refused to train colleagues, fearing they will only help a potential competitor in a lucrative, often cash-only, business. National statistics compiled by the Alan Guttmacher Institute illustrate the clinics' problem. The number of abortions declined by 17.4 percent in just seven years, to a low of 1.328 million in 1997 from a peak of 1.608 million abortions in 1990, the most recent year for which statistics are available. Different groups give different explanations for the drop. The National Right to Life Committee credits the persuasive power of abortion opponents as well as laws requiring informed consent and parental notification. But Dr. Stanley Henshaw, a senior fellow at the Guttmacher Institute who analyzed abortion data, said the reason is mostly better birth control. While it is true, he said, that more teenagers are keeping their babies, most of those having abortions are in their early 20's and fewer of them are becoming pregnant.
That was a major reason Daniel McGillicuddy, one of Dr. Downey's patients, went there. He had decided, he said, that he just did not trust his local Long Island hospital, and he knew a doctor at Sloan-Kettering who could give him a reference to a thoracic surgeon. Mr. McGillicuddy, who is 72, developed bladder cancer about a decade ago and was treated near his Oyster Bay home. Then he found out he had lung cancer. ''I wasn't staying locally,'' he said. ''I had had a couple of bad experiences at the local hospital.'' One time, he said, he had a bad reaction to anesthesia with a colonoscopy and collapsed. After he returned home, he said, ''the gastroenterologist never called to find out if I was still alive.'' He went to Dr. Downey and never left. He developed two separate lung cancers, which Dr. Downey removed, and is surviving with just one lung, but doing well.
You could argue that Gold should have been allowed to die of starvation at her home, or of pneumonia in the hospital. But you could just as easily argue that it was better to help her hold on for as long as she could. Who can count the value of an extra week, or the feeling that you went out fighting? Gold said she was willing to enter hospice care in the first place only because of the recent innovation of open access. When her husband was dying, she didn't sign him up for hospice because she didn't want him to think she had given up on him. But with open access, there was no need to renounce treatment to enroll. That was why Gold was able to continue chemotherapy for the first three months that she was a hospice patient. It's a classic case of having your cake and eating it: you can enroll in hospice and get the wide range of support services free through Medicare's hospice benefit and still allow yourself to believe that you can live forever.
The Norvasc study also had somewhat paradoxical results. The study, which followed almost 20,000 patients with high blood pressure from 1998 until 2004, showed that patients taking Norvasc had a 15 percent lower death rate from all causes than those taking beta blockers, a different type of blood pressure drug. Deaths from heart attacks and other cardiovascular events alone were 25 percent lower in patients taking Norvasc. But Norvasc failed to show a statistically significant reduction in deaths from fatal coronary heart disease, the initial goal of the trial.
The new data were certain to be seized upon by lawyers representing former Vioxx users, who have filed more than 11,500 lawsuits against Merck. Doctors say the new data also suggest a somewhat greater risk for people who took Vioxx, although some said that by now, presumably more than a year and a half since anyone has taken the drug, the risks of future problems are small. One thing that seems certain in the latest controversy is that the measurable risks posed by Vioxx depend on whose strokes and heart attacks were counted, and when. The clinical trial at issue, called Approve, studied 2,600 people, half of whom took Vioxx and half a placebo for three years. The trial was designed to see if Vioxx could prevent precancerous colon polyps, but after concern rose about the heart risks of Vioxx, the trial was also used to study cardiac risk. The results showed that Vioxx users had twice the risk of a heart attack, stroke, other blood clot or death from a cardiac cause than those who took a placebo. It was when Merck learned the preliminary results of that trial in September 2004 that it withdrew Vioxx from the market worldwide and the paper on the results was prepared. The New England Journal of Medicine published the results online in February 2005 and in print the next month.
Ms. Wilson had a blood test that revealed she had pertussis antibodies. But without her corroborating symptoms, it would have been hard to discern whether this meant she had lingering immunity or a recent infection. Like diagnosis, effective treatment depends on timing. Doctors say the best chance for reducing the duration and severity of the illness is to take the antibiotic erythromycin within the first week of infection. ''After that, there's not much you can do'' but let the disease run its course, said Beverly Connelly, an infectious disease specialist at Cincinnati Children's Hospital. Cough suppressants have little or no effect, though some patients report that sleeping upright helps. ''I slept in a recliner in the living room for months,'' Ms. Wilson said. Medical experts have long been puzzled as to what causes the oppressive cough, which lingers long after the pertussis bacterium has disappeared from the patient's system. ''It's mysterious, but there's a suspicion that the toxins the bacteria produce could affect nerves in the lungs or perhaps the part of the brain that controls cough,'' said Dr. Cortese at the C.D.C.
''The goal is not just to make people live longer,'' said Dr. David A. Sinclair, a molecular biologist at Harvard. ''It's to see eventually that an 80-year-old feels like a 50-year-old does today.'' In a series of studies, Dr. Kenyon, of the University of California, San Francisco, has created mutant roundworms that live six times longer than normal, largely because of a mutation in a single gene called daf-2. The gene encodes a receptor on the surface of cells similar to a receptor in humans that responds to two important hormones, insulin and the insulin-like growth factor 1 or IGF-1. Insulin is necessary for the body to transport glucose into cells to fuel their operations. Dr. Kenyon and other researchers suggest that worm cells with mutated receptors may be ''tricked'' into sensing that nutrients are not available, even when they are. With its maintenance machinery thereby turned on high, each worm cell lives far longer -- and so does the worm.
It doesn't quite feel the same as in the days when online privacy was the realm of the most paranoid and technically elite. The Computers, Freedom and Privacy Conference, which celebrated its 10th anniversary last month, used to attract an eclectic group of cryptographers, hackers, academics, privacy advocates and law enforcement officials. Many longtime attendees are now there on behalf of companies they have started or have been recruited to join. Not many meet the description of the lone cryptographer living hand-to-mouth, writing secret codes. ''I think there are very few people like that left,'' said Mr. Boucher, of PrivacyX. ''I know some people who started out in the cypher underground, and most of them are now holding high-level positions in companies. And they are not complaining.'' To make money, privacy-protection companies have two basic strategies: sell software and services or give away their products and sell advertising instead. The advertising model can be risky, but Anonymizer, PrivacyX and Hush Communications have arrangements with advertisers, and Zero-Knowledge has contracts in the works with online shops. Each one differs in how the advertisements appear, but all the companies assure their customers that no advertiser will ever know any personal information about them.
He is the editor of a new book, ''Global Warming and the American Economy'' (Edward Elgar Publishing), featuring detailed projections by economists and climate scientists. The bottom line is that the economic benefits of global warming seem likely to slightly outweigh the overall costs in America, and that Northerners will especially benefit. The best guess, which assumes a four-degrees-Fahrenheit rise in temperature and a one-foot rise in sea level over the next century, is that the net annual benefit will be $20 billion. ''Scientists originally thought there were going to be horrific results from climate change, but we're not seeing that,'' Dr. Mendelsohn said. The biggest beneficiaries will be farmers, who will have longer growing seasons and crops that grow faster, thanks to the extra carbon in the air. ''Crops will move north,'' Dr. Mendelsohn said. ''It will be easier to grow food in Connecticut, and New Jersey will have fresh vegetables longer. You could have tree plantations of Southern pine in the mid-Atlantic region.''
Along with the endless chewing, Fletcher and his supporters also advocated a low-protein diet as a means to health and well-being. But by 1919, when Fletcher, 68, died of a heart attack, his diet plan was on its way out, supplanted by the next new thing: counting calories. Its champions were two Yale professors, Irving Fisher and Eugene Lyman Fisk, who wrote the best-selling book ''How to Live.'' ''Constant vigilance is necessary, yet it is worthwhile when one considers the inconvenience as well as the menace of obesity,'' Fisher and Fisk advised their readers. More recently, of course, the preferred diet, at least for cancer prevention, has been to eat foods low in fat. And that was what led to the Women's Health Initiative, a study financed by the National Institutes of Health comparing low fat to regular diets. Eight years later, the women who reduced dietary fat had the same rates of colon cancer, breast cancer and heart disease as those whose diets were unchanged.
By contrast, the College Board's SAT, the leading test on the East and West Coasts, taken by slightly more students, does not test science skills. It will add a mandatory writing test in March 2005. In April, Gaston Caperton, the president of the College Board, announced the Writing Challenge to the Nation, a five-year campaign to increase the time and money spent on teaching writing. ''We are a membership organization, so we hear directly from high schools and colleges, and they all say writing needs a huge amount of work,'' Mr. Caperton said. ''To say writing is an option to success in college, or success in life, is just not true. Math and science need to be improved, too, but writing is so important to everyone, whether they're engineers or in business or government.'' On the testing of science and math, Mr. Caperton cedes nothing to ACT. ''We're the ones who have the subject matter tests, the SAT II's in biology and chemistry and physics,'' he said. ''ACT says they have a science test, but it's just a small part of their test, a smattering of questions testing all the sciences.''
Because of the odd economics of the cancer drug market, though, Abraxane's price does not seem to be hurting its popularity. About 20,000 people have now been treated with the drug, and Dr. Soon-Shiong expects its sales to approach $200 million this year. By 2010, Abraxane's annual sales could reach $1 billion, analysts say. Those rosy forecasts illustrate the pricing power that makers of cancer drugs wield. With patients often facing grim prognoses and desperate for new therapies, and insurers relatively powerless to negotiate prices or deny coverage, the cost of treatments seems to have little impact on demand. The rise in cancer-drug prices is a microcosm of broader trends pushing up health care costs nationally. Despite decades of efforts by governments and insurers to restrain costs, patients continue to want the newest -- and most expensive -- drugs and medical devices. And doctors and the health care industry have little reason to keep costs in check, because insurers rarely deny coverage for new treatments on the basis of price.
The scanner takes about 35 three-millimeter-thick ''slices'' across the heart. Any calcium deposits will stand out clearly. After the scan, software analyzes all the images and calculates a cumulative calcium score based on the size and density of the deposits. The results are immediately available. LARRY KATZENSTEIN PREVENTION Larry Katzenstein is writing a book on heart scanning with Dr. Harvey Hecht.
John Tyson  Rancher, Virginia City, Nev. Had I not gone in for a P.S.A. test, I wouldn't be here right now. I was diagnosed with prostate cancer seven years ago, almost right on my 50th birthday, when I went in for a regular checkup. My P.S.A. number was 7.5. They did another one, and it came back 6.5 I chose to have a radical prostatectomy because I was young, my cancer was growing fast, and it was my best chance of survival. As far as I'm concerned I'm 100 percent cured. They found the cancer when it was so small; it was confined to the prostate. And I'm very happy to tell you that I've had no side effects. Everything works. I have much to be grateful for. Dr. John W. Coleman  Urologist, New York City I'm recommending that my patients have a P.S.A. test when they're about 50 years old, unless they have a family history. Then it's earlier. It's basically the only test you've got. And if you do it on a yearly basis and someone is running with reasonably steady levels, and suddenly their P.S.A. jumps, it's your one opportunity to investigate before the tumor can spread.
Dr. Matthew Muldoon, a cholesterol researcher at the University of Pittsburgh, said available data on statins cannot rule out long-term risk. ''We have studies that show statins don't cause cancer within a five-year period,'' he said. ''Of course, neither does smoking.'' All of which leaves Judith Wyman, a 52-year-old Manhattan aerobics instructor with high cholesterol but no other heart disease risk factors, a bit nervous about the drugs. Last year, her total cholesterol was 245 and her doctor brought up the idea of her starting a statin. She decided to hold off, making some changes in her diet and exercise habits. On a recent checkup her cholesterol level had dropped to 225. She said she preferred lowering her cholesterol the natural way. ''For me it was almost a pride thing,'' she confessed. ''I lead a healthy life. Why should I have to take this pill?'' Correction:  September 6, 2000, Wednesday  Because of a mechanical error, material was omitted from Page F2 in some copies of Science Times yesterday. The omissions were a picture caption with the article about cholesterol-lowering drugs and a headline and a picture for the article about dolphins' communication. Any reader wishing a replacement page may write to Production Quality Control, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or telephone (212) 556-1992. E-mail: quality@nytimes.com. (Include a postal address.)
The new head of the Food and Drug Administration, Dr. Mark B. McClellan, said today that he intended to speed the approval of new drugs and crack down on deceptive pharmaceutical advertising. The agency has substantially reduced the time required to review and approve new medicines since 1993, when drug companies began paying fees to help cover the costs of such reviews. It still takes a little more than a year for the agency to approve a typical brand-name drug, and Dr. McClellan said today, ''We can do better.'' Dr. McClellan said he wanted to accelerate the approval of both brand-name and generic drugs, as well as medical devices. ''We have some great opportunities to do better in drug approval times and in getting products that are safe and effective to market more quickly,'' Dr. McClellan, a physician and economist who worked at the White House until he took charge of the agency on Nov. 14, said.
A study in the May issue of Academic Medicine showed that among third-year residents in 2003, 27 percent chose careers in primary care medicine rather than pursuing a subspecialty, down from 54 percent in 1998. Only 19 percent of first-year students said they intended to be generalists. ''I can imagine patients feel lonely, 'My doctor didn't follow me,''' Dr. Russo said. ''I wish I could. I wish I had the time to sit down with them.'' Making the Decision When Meg Gaines was a little girl, her father, a lawyer, was transferred to Belgium; the family arrived scarcely 20 years after the end of World War II. She grew up keenly aware of European history, visiting concentration camps and battlegrounds, learning about military strategies. What was the best way to fight her war against cancer, she asked herself that night in 1995, as she struggled to decide about treatment. Stay the course with chemotherapy or risk the cryosurgery first, which, back then, was a relatively experimental and possibly lethal procedure?
Pfizer held the first bidding rights on ETC-216 because Esperion had licensed its rights from Pharmacia, a pharmaceutical company that Pfizer bought this past April. Esperion had bought the patent from Pharmacia in 1998 and made that patent the cornerstone of the company, Mr. Newton said yesterday. Mr. Newton formerly worked for Warner-Lambert and was one of the scientists who discovered Lipitor before Warner-Lambert was acquired by Pfizer in spring 2000. ''People thought that when cholesterol was there, it was almost impossible to reverse it,'' Mr. Newton said. The results reported in the medical journal ''changed all that -- you don't need a jackhammer to get it out. It can be removed by adding good cholesterol.'' The new drug being developed would ''pull the cholesterol out of the arteries,'' he said. It would go to the liver and be excreted. He said the drug would be given to patients who, having had one heart attack, were ''walking time bombs.''
I believe that the false positive issue is not that huge. And though breast cancers are uncommon in women in their 40's, they are also more aggressive. You have a thicker haystack with fewer needles in it, but when you find one, it is sharp. For men at the age when prostate screening is recommended, we say, Mr. Jones, you're now 50, and it's time to talk about the P.S.A. Read this handout, and if you want the test, call me and I'll order it. There is very little data supporting the utility of P.S.A. tests. The digital rectal exam has never been proven to improve morbidity or mortality either. So I think it's a matter of, maybe not quite wishful thinking, but hope that these tests will be helpful. Again, for African-American men, we have no proof that the screening affects their mortality and morbidity. But we don't have anything else to offer.
Q. How is this tailoring of drugs different from the way they're currently ordered? A. Till now, there's been a one-size-fits-all approach. In most cases, an average dose of a medication is ordered, and then, if the patient suffers side effects, the dosage is adjusted. With gene testing, we can customize the prescription. Here at St. Jude, we've been gene-testing every child who comes to us with leukemia. I study acute lymphoblastic leukemia -- A.L.L., the most common childhood cancer. When a youngster comes in with A.L.L., we get a sample of their DNA. We put it on a special computer chip that scans a half-million different places on the genome. Mostly, we're looking for unusual variations of the genes and misspellings of the genetic code. We have a database from earlier patients that helps us predict a patient's risk of relapse and which misspellings are likely to result in drug sensitivities.
''I don't want to say that because our children have done well, the results are going to be the same everywhere,'' Dr. Saigal said. ''The results would be comparable with similar socioeconomic conditions and similar resources available.'' Dr. Saigal also said the degree of disability varied widely among participants with low birth weights. ''I don't want it to appear that all these children do well,'' she said. ''Looking at new reports of children born in the 1990's,'' Dr. Saigal said, ''the earlier outcome is pessimistic. But most children can, to a large extent, overcome the biological risks. This attests to the resilience of human beings.''
A common industrial chemical used to produce Teflon might pose health risks for young girls and women of childbearing age, an internal report by the Environmental Protection Agency has found. Agency scientists are concerned because the chemical, ammonium perfluorooctanoate, accumulates in human blood and demonstrates toxic properties. In September, the agency initiated a priority review under the Toxic Substances Control Act, which can be invoked to ban chemicals that pose significant risk of cancer, gene mutations or health defects. The draft report assesses current scientific work, including studies by various companies. The chemical, abbreviated in scientific literature as PFOA, is also known as C-8 at the DuPont Company, which manufactures it. In assessing the risks of the chemical, the draft report used a ratio known as the margin of exposure, under which anything lower than 100 could be cause for serious concern. In the draft report on C-8, this average ratio ranged from 66 to 80 for women and girls. For men and boys, the averages ranged from 9,000 to 11,000. The gender difference is notable because studies done on human exposure have focused on industrial workers, the vast majority of whom are male.
In the year since Medicare began paying for wider access to colonoscopy to look for colon cancer, the number of people having the test has greatly increased, and doctors say they are struggling to keep up with demand. Dr. Michael Pignone, an assistant professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina, said the average waiting time for an appointment for a colonoscopy was three to six months. For many years, Medicare paid for colonoscopies only for people considered at high risk of colon cancer. That includes people who have a history of bowel disease, including colitis, have colorectal cancer in the family or have polyps, which can be precursors to cancer. In December 2000, at the urging of some medical groups, Congress told Medicare to pay for colonoscopy screening for everyone over 50, effective July 1, 2001. Before that, most Medicare beneficiaries were eligible only for a cheaper test called sigmoidoscopy.
''It's not a fountain of youth, but it restored most of their function,'' Dr. Kandel said. ''The idea that we will one day come up with a drug that cures all memory problems is a dream. I think it's a decade away, at least.''
Months went by, with the doctor telling Mrs. Erlich he could do nothing for her without a myelogram and her saying she had had one and asking why he could not just find it. Finally, she said that perhaps she should contact a lawyer. ''Within half an hour, they found it,'' she said. ''It was irretrievable until I said the word 'lawyer.' '' ''It may have been busyness,'' she said, ''but it seemed to me a matter of indifference: why bother searching for something when the patient can just repeat the test? Indifference to the pain and risk for me, indifference to the very substantial cost of the test for Medicare.'' She changed doctors. Mrs. Erlich's doctor may never learn how irritating he was. Most doctors do not, said Dr. Richard Frankel, a professor of medicine and geriatrics at Indiana University who teaches medical faculty how to communicate with patients. Even doctors who have bad experiences when they see a doctor rarely speak up, Dr. Frankel said.
Dr. Kelly Brownell, director of the Yale Center for Eating and Weight Disorders, is equally convinced. ''It is clear people need to eat less sugar,'' he said. ''To leave out a recommendation on sugar is highly questionable because it's obvious the population is eating too much of it. You can't blame everything on sugar, but it is one important part of the puzzle.'' Dr. Camargo acknowledges that the government may not heed the researchers' conclusions. ''If all the final guidelines says is 'choose wisely,' nothing will happen,'' he said. ''If there is a will to change, to improve people's health, the government will tell people how to choose what's better and what's worse.'' EATING WELL
In the sort of case that has raised questions, the patients have typically been taken off their medicines while scientists observe their return of psychotic symptoms. The risk to patients in such studies is in dispute, but may include a recurrence of symptoms, or permanent deterioration of the mental state. At least four instances in which such subjects have committed suicide have been reported in the press in the last eight years. Critics say that too often patients are not clearly told and do not understand that when they enter such an experiment, there is no hope of benefit or treatment, but there are serious risks. Defenders of the research say that while a few experiments may not be up to ethical standards set by the Federal Government, the great majority are. They say the suffering caused in the experiments is probably not permanent and is necessary to help discover how to best treat illness.
Guided by ultrasound imaging, a surgeon inserts a needle-thin probe into a tumor. Then, the probe opens like an umbrella with alternating current sent up the spokes. ''The ions in surrounding tissue follow the current, and that back and forth action creates heat,'' said Dr. Singletary, who is heading the study. ''The tumor heats itself, causing its own destruction.'' The remains are left inside the breast, where they wither. Laser ablation works similarly, but uses laser energy to heat and kill the tumor, said Dr. Kambiz Dowlatshahi, associate professor of surgery at Rush-Presbyterian St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago. One concern with minimally invasive surgery is that it may leave some cancerous cells behind in the margins, but so far, studies have found the margins clean. Leaving the tumor remains inside may be another downside, as it leaves pathologists with only biopsied tissue to examine. ''In the foreseeable future, we will probably want to know more and more about the biology of each individual patient's breast cancer, and some of those ablation procedures will limit our ability to do that,'' said Dr. Hudis. ''We just don't know yet how much information in years to come we'll need to get from the primary tumor.''
For many women at the clinic, their desire to end their pregnancy clashed with their religious beliefs. Tammy, a Muslim, had her first abortion a year ago, after having three children. She is married and works in a coffee shop in Tennessee. She became pregnant this time after erratically taking her birth control pills. ''I know it's against God,'' she said of her abortion. ''But you have three kids, you want to raise them good. My friends and sister-in-law say, 'You care about money problems but don't care about what God will do.' ''I believe it's wrong. I pray to God to forgive me. This will be the last one. Never, never again.'' The Law Since 1992, when the Supreme Court recognized states' authority to restrict abortion as long as they did not create an ''undue burden,'' states have enacted 487 laws restricting patients or providers, in many cases calling for mandatory counseling, waiting periods and parental consent for minors, according to Naral Pro-Choice America. The result is a patchwork of laws and regulations that vary from state to state, some of which may come before the United States Supreme Court. In surveys, Americans largely support these restrictions, even if they say abortion should be legal. This fall, the court will consider whether New Hampshire's parental notification statute creates an undue burden because it does not include an exception to protect the health of the woman.
While it is not uncommon for a few cancer cells to develop when men are in their 20's or 30's, these cells typically divide so slowly that tumors are rare in men younger than 50. After that, prostate cancer becomes increasingly common: men in their 60's and 70's have a 1-in-6 chance of being diagnosed with prostate cancer; a man living to 100 is almost certain to develop it. But again, given prostate cancer's languid growth, most older men will die of other causes, like heart disease or stroke. Hence the adage that most prostate cancer patients die with their disease rather than from it. Moreover, the P.S.A. test cannot pinpoint those faster growing tumors for which early treatment might make a difference. Still, the P.S.A. continues to have strong advocates, not the least of whom are patients who have had surgery and never experienced a recurrence. They are usually convinced that P.S.A. testing has prolonged their lives, if not saved them. Indeed, in some cases the test may have done just that.
Scientists are now investigating the biology of long-lived animals to find ways to slow down our own aging process, but the clues have proved elusive. Compared to bowhead whales, we clearly have a long way to go in the pursuit of a longer life. But for bowhead whales, longevity has turned out to have a severe downside. It takes bowhead whales about 20 years to reach sexual maturity. A female bowhead gives birth to a single calf at a time, and it may take four to seven years before it gives birth to the next one. When bowheads began to be slaughtered in huge numbers in the 1800s, the whales could not make up for their lost numbers. They've been slowly recovering, but are still well below their 19th-century numbers and are considered in danger of extinction. In a human-dominated world, old age may be a luxury few animals can afford.
Even in such extreme circumstances, Dr. Peterson said, the couple will have an easier time if both agree on the importance of having a family. For example, they might decide that if infertility treatment fails, they will adopt children. If nothing else, infertile couples may find encouragement in the knowledge that many others have gone through the process and maintained strong and stable marriages. More than 90 percent of the couples whom Dr. Peterson studied reported average or above average marital satisfaction. ''The way most people seem to react,'' Dr. Greil said, ''is, 'It's you and me and against the world.' ''
Similarly, progestins that are chemically different from the kind in Prempro theoretically may not have the same effect as was found in the trial. ''We can't generalize our finding to the other estrogens and other progestins, or other doses or ways of taking hormones like pills versus patches,'' said Dr. Marcia Stefanick, the principal investigator of the Women's Health Initiative trial. ''But if pharmaceutical companies or anyone else starts to claim that these other kinds are safer, they really need to prove that.'' The Women's Health Initiative is continuing to study the use of estrogen supplements alone in women who have had hysterectomies. That part of the trial was not halted, but will go on as planned until 2005 because there is no evidence that the estrogen alone is causing an increased risk of breast cancer. Lower doses of estrogen and progestin have been found to be effective against hot flashes and vaginal dryness in studies done by Dr. Lobo. Lower doses, about half as strong as the standard dose, have the added benefit of reducing the chance of breakthrough bleeding, Dr. Lobo said.
Four days a week, Dr. Orrin Devinsky, one of the world's leading epilepsy experts, gets into his gray Jeep Cherokee and drives to his office, which is decorated with family pictures and features a sweeping view of the East River. On Thursdays, he also drives to his office, which is decorated with family pictures and features a sweeping view -- of Livingston, N.J. Dr. Devinsky, who has directed epilepsy treatment at New York University's Hospital for Joint Diseases for the last 10 years, began moonlighting across the Hudson about a year and a half ago. But the decision to work part-time at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston had little to do with the money offered or the fact that he lives in nearby Short Hills. It was because St. Barnabas, the flagship of New Jersey's largest hospital system, offered to let him set up his own dedicated center for treating epilepsy and seizure disorders. The clinic is now the most heavily used center for that specialty in the state.
The idea of steganography is to take advantage of the fact that digital files, like photographs or music files, can be slightly altered and still look the same to the human eye or sound the same to the human ear. The only way to spot such an alteration is with computer programs that can notice statistical deviations from the expected patterns of data in the image or music. Those who are starting to look for such deviations say that their programs are as yet imperfect but that, nonetheless, some are finding widespread use of steganography on the Internet. For national security reasons some of these experts do not want to reveal exactly what they find, and where. ''Quite an alarming number of images appear to have steganography in them,'' said one expert who has looked for them, Chet Hosmer, the president and chief executive of WetStone Technologies in Cortland, N.Y.
A second tool demonstrated, called Web Assistant, is intended to improve the relevance of search results and help resolve ambiguities in results that, for example, would give a user sites for both Reggie Bush and George Bush. ''This is a prototype of a browser that aims to change the way we interact with information,'' said Silviu Cucerzan, one of the researchers who designed the new tool. So far, Microsoft has failed to gain ground against the dominant search provider Google. Data released by Nielsen/NetRatings last week showed Google fielding 53.7 percent of all search queries, while Microsoft had an 8.9 percent market share. Moreover, in the past year, the number of queries Google handled has risen by 40 percent, while Microsoft's figure increased by only 2.5 percent. ''Microsoft people are really passionate about search, and we want to compete and to win,'' said Dan Liebling, a member of the Microsoft Research staff working on techniques to improve the relevance of results in Microsoft's Live Search service.
The scariest part about dying, at least to me, is how it ends: with the immutable fact of no longer existing. But there are other common fears: dying alone and dying in pain. Today, say specialists in end-of-life care, no one has to do either. Palliative care began as the control of pain, and pain relief remains the hallmark of most end-of-life care, no matter where it takes place. At Continuum Hospice Care, six full-time doctors specialize in pain and symptom control at the end of life, and Cassin, the C.E.O., tells her staff members that ''no patient you come in contact with should ever be in pain.'' She does not mean just physical pain, either, but also the kinds of pain that are more difficult to diagnose: emotional pain -- which Cassin describes as ''I'm frightened''; psychological pain -- ''my family hurts, my friends hurt''; and spiritual pain -- ''I don't know where I'm going, I haven't been a very good person, I haven't done the right things with my life.'' As she explains to her nurses and health aides, ''You have just as much responsibility to alleviate that as you do to alleviate the physical pain -- and if you can't, you can know who to call in to help you, know when to call a chaplain, a massage therapist, a pet therapist, a doctor, a volunteer to play the harp.''
A.  Middle-class people often think they have good insurance until they get sick. Then they often find their H.M.O. refuses to pay for the care they need or at least part of the care is excluded from their coverage. Q.  Who would lose under a single-payer system? A.  Private insurance companies. The drug companies would also lose because they would be forced to lower their prices. Q.  We hear horror stories about long waiting lines in Canada. If Americans couldn't buy private health insurance, how could they be sure they would get timely, modern care? Who would protect them? A.  What's to protect them now, with insurance companies' running the show? There have been waits for some procedures in Canada and other places. But that's because the system is underfunded, not because it's structurally wrong. Q.  You got 8,000 doctors to endorse your single-payer article in JAMA. But there are 836,000 physicians in the country. The American Medical Association is opposed to a single-payer system. What, if anything, is going to get a vast majority of doctors on your side?
Those born premature are more likely to suffer from respiratory distress. Stillbirths occur in rare instances, usually when the gestational condition was undetected. IMPACT ON MOTHERS -- Some get pre-eclampsia, a dangerous form of high blood pressure. Most get gestational diabetes in subsequent pregnancies. Oversize babies whose shoulders are too large for the birth canal must be delivered by Caesarean section. Between 20 and 50 percent end up with Type 2 diabetes. For additional information on diabetes and relevant links about the gestational form, visit: nytimes.com/diabetes
''I'd get up in the morning and have ice cream and cookies,'' Ms. Munson said. Dinner might be three or four fast-food hamburgers and candy bars. Her husband, Jeffrey, who has lost 100 pounds, was also seriously overweight. ''Our wedding pictures are really funny,'' she said. ''We broke the bed when we were first married.'' Ms. Munson began to face her weight problem, she said, when her blood pressure began to rise. At first she did some crash dieting, eating only about 650 calories a day. ''I read every book in the library about how to keep the weight off,'' she said, and eventually settled on a more balanced approach that included salads, fish, vegetable burgers, fruit and always a little dessert. And exercise. She exercises to a tape every day, jumps rope, and has begun running. In part, Ms. Munson attributes her success at least in part to the fact that she did not know success was supposedly impossible.
Mr. Vicente, who is now working on some of his own projects ''about science and human potential,'' also suggested that the film might have appeared more unusual because the ideas it presented had been ''generally relegated to books.'' If studio executives are still bewildered by the film's fans, William Arntz -- a longtime student of metaphysical subjects who financed the films with profits from selling two software companies -- is not. ''Part of the phenomena is people realizing it's not some weird fringe thing,'' he said, adding that many viewers had told him they simply had their notions about how the universe worked validated, rather than changed, by the scientific information contained in the film. ''It was a conscious decision to use the language of science which, by its very nature, is much more neutral. If you use the language of spirituality, everyone thinks you're talking about religion.'' From the start, Mr. Arntz said, people inundated him with requests for more information, asking for transcripts -- and even unedited DVD's -- of the film's interviews with the scientists. A study guide can be downloaded from the film's Web site (www.whatthebleep.com). The filmmakers followed ''The Little Book of Bleeps,'' a paperback published at the end of 2004 containing quotations from the movie , with ''What the Bleep Do We Know!? Discovering the Endless Possibilities for Altering Your Everyday Reality'' (HCI), a hardcover book published at the end of last year.
''Although there are undoubtedly persons who would choose to participate in a lifelong regimen of dietary change to achieve results of this magnitude,'' the researchers, led by Dr. William Taylor, deadpanned in the April 1987 issue of The Annals of Internal Medicine, ''we suspect that some might not.'' Dr. Ford, the Connecticut psychologist, says that when his medical colleagues ask him to counsel heart patients about lifestyle changes, ''Women will tell me, 'So much of my life is made up of doing what is required, I really want to have something I enjoy.' ''  And that something is usually food, especially the comfort foods, all high in fat, sugar and calories, that Americans associate with freedom, pleasure and love. Society compounds the problem by inundating the public with TV commercials, fast-food options and overstuffed supermarket shelves that entice us with a huge variety of artery-clogging prepared foods. We succumb because the food is easy, quick and tasty. With such temptations, heart-healthy eating becomes a crusade, one that most women don't have the energy to wage.
The study, sponsored by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, used a database of almost 2,800 people 65 and older, all tested and found free of dementia at the start of the study. The researchers tracked the progress of those who took cholesterol-lowering drugs (both statins and others) and those who did not. In the course of the study, 480 people developed dementia. But using drugs to lower cholesterol seemed to make no difference in determining which patients fell ill. The only connection the researchers found was that those who used the drugs and then stopped using them were slightly more likely to suffer dementia than those who had never used them. Even this, Dr. Rea suspects, was not due to the drugs themselves. Instead, many of these people were taken off the medicine when early symptoms appeared and drugs became a less important part of treatment. Then they were no longer taking the medicine when their dementia was actually diagnosed.
For others, there is more of a debate. ''We don't have sufficient data to recommend statins routinely for young people,'' said Dr. Eric Brass, professor of medicine at the University of California at Los Angeles and chairman of a Food and Drug Administration advisory committee that last month voted not to allow statins to be sold over the counter.  ''There is a potential for unrecognized toxicity.'' One thing everyone can agree on is that statins are extremely effective at lowering cholesterol. They work by inhibiting an enzyme called HMG CoA reductase that is necessary for cholesterol production, resulting in a cholesterol deficit within liver cells.  Because cholesterol, a fatty substance, is essential for all cellular function, the liver cells start making surface receptors to gobble up the cholesterol floating by in the blood, thereby lowering the level. Though cholesterol is essential for life, when its concentration gets too high in the blood, it can be a killer. At high concentrations, cholesterol burrows into blood vessel walls where it attracts immune cells that feed on it. The cells, fattened on the cholesterol, turn into ''foam'' cells, which pad the wall.
Gary Foster, clinical director of the weight and eating disorders program at the University of Pennsylvania, adds that obesity is also often associated with morale problems and depression. According to David Thompson of Policy Analysis Inc., a consulting firm in Brookline, Mass., the direct cost to employer health plans was $12.7 billion in 1994, which he said was the first year such costs were tallied. But companies are not taking it sitting down. Last year, 93 percent of employers had programs that fostered employee health, up from 76 percent in 1992, according to Hewitt Associates, a benefits consulting firm outside Chicago. Such ''wellness'' programs typically offer help in stopping smoking, managing stress, prenatal care and nutrition and fitness. Programs are also offered by some insurers, like Highmark Blue Cross and Blue Shield in Pennsylvania, which runs 17 wellness centers. The programs vary widely. Many big companies have on-site fitness centers with aerobic exercise classes, machines and coaches. Some employers have indoor or outdoor running tracks, while others subsidize memberships in health clubs. Companies often display nutrition information in their lunchrooms and subsidize nutrition classes.
I believe that the false positive issue is not that huge. And though breast cancers are uncommon in women in their 40's, they are also more aggressive. You have a thicker haystack with fewer needles in it, but when you find one, it is sharp. For men at the age when prostate screening is recommended, we say, Mr. Jones, you're now 50, and it's time to talk about the P.S.A. Read this handout, and if you want the test, call me and I'll order it. There is very little data supporting the utility of P.S.A. tests. The digital rectal exam has never been proven to improve morbidity or mortality either. So I think it's a matter of, maybe not quite wishful thinking, but hope that these tests will be helpful. Again, for African-American men, we have no proof that the screening affects their mortality and morbidity. But we don't have anything else to offer.
We urgently need international agreements by scientific organizations to limit such publications and an international dialogue on the best approach to preventing recipes for weapons of mass destruction from falling into the wrong hands. Part of that discussion should concern the appropriate role of governments, scientists and their scientific societies, and industry. We also need a new Manhattan Project to develop specific defenses against new biological viral threats, natural or human made. There are promising new technologies, like RNA interference, that could be harnessed. We need to put more stones on the defensive side of the scale. We realize that calling for this genome to be ''un-published'' is a bit like trying to gather the horses back into the barn. Perhaps we will be lucky this time, and we will indeed succeed in developing defenses for these killer flu viruses before they are needed. We should, however, treat the genetic sequences of pathological biological viruses with no less care than designs for nuclear weapons.
The recent death of a healthy young woman participating in a research project at Johns Hopkins University has cast a disturbing pall over the elaborate protective mechanisms that are supposed to ensure the safety of all biomedical research supported by the federal government. This is the second time in two years that a research volunteer has died in a medical experiment at a prestigious university. If even the best of the nation's medical institutions are experiencing such problems, there is reason for concern. For the past several decades there has been a steady and healthy trend toward tightening up the procedures governing the ethics and safety of biomedical research. Today all researchers receiving federal funds must follow accepted ethical guidelines, all patients must be fully informed of the hazards, and special institutional review boards at hospitals and medical schools must approve and monitor the experiments. The question raised by the recent tragedies is whether the review boards are performing up to snuff or are mostly rubber-stamping what the researchers want to do.
In Woody Allen's movie ''Sleeper,'' a man wakes up 200 years in the future to find that science has proved deep-fried foods to be healthy. Is the future here already? By now, many Americans are thoroughly exasperated by the seemingly contradictory information in the press about what a sound diet is. Lately, I hear many people say, ''If the doctors can't make up their minds, I'll eat whatever I want and quit worrying.'' That would be unfortunate. Science can help people distinguish what sounds good from what's real. Nowhere are the claims more conflicting than in the area of diet and nutrition. Unfortunately, this is an area where misinformation can make a huge difference to an individual's health and well-being. The high-protein diet (which is almost always high in fat), for example, has become very popular; just about everyone knows someone who has lost weight on this kind of diet. Given the American epidemic of obesity, isn't that a good thing?
''We looked at all the possible explanations,'' Dr. Berry said. He ticked them off: less mammography screening. But there was no sign of that. Increased use of drugs like tamoxifen that can prevent breast cancer; no evidence of that. ''There was some notion that it might be statins, but that was essentially debunked,'' Dr. Berry said. After July 2002, Dr. Berry said, the rate ''dropped each month and it is exactly where you would expect it to be'' if the declining use of menopausal hormones were the reason. Dr. Barnett Kramer, the associate director for disease prevention at the National Institutes of Health, said that hormones were certainly the most plausible explanation for such an immediate effect on incidence. Most breast cancer is fueled by estrogen and studies have found that removing estrogen, with drugs like tamoxifen that block the hormone, sharply reduces breast cancer rates within a year. That was also the conclusion of Christina Clarke, an epidemiologist at the Northern California Cancer Center, and her colleagues, when they analyzed the cancer's rates in California. The investigators used data they had collected for a National Cancer Institute's program and data from Kaiser Permanente, the health insurer.
There is an exciting new breakthrough in the treatment of diabetes, reported last month in The New England Journal of Medicine. Instead of using the entire pancreas, researchers in Edmonton, Alberta, isolated the islet cells and simply injected them into patients' livers. They were able to cure seven diabetics. But to treat one patient, islet cells from two or more donor pancreases had to be used. A way around the donor shortage is to grow islet cells in the laboratory. This sounds much easier than it is: normal adult cells cannot grow and divide indefinitely in a test tube. But special cells, called stem cells, do have this capacity. If they could be coaxed to become islet cells, we would be able to treat every diabetic with an islet cell transplant. Not only that, but with stem cell technology we may be able to grow cells to treat patients with brain and spinal cord trauma, stroke, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, muscular dystrophy, liver failure and many other conditions.
One way to keep track of device problems is through the F.D.A.'s device surveillance system. When medical devices fail or injure patients, manufacturers, hospitals, and doctors are supposed to notify the agency. Of the 100,000 such reports to the agency each year, virtually all are from devices that were used just once, Dr. Kessler said. Of course, if a reused device does fail, the agency may not get a report. ''Can you imagine a hospital that discovers a problem and the manufacturer had said, 'Don't reuse that device'? '' Dr. Kessler said. ''Do you think the hospital would want to tell anyone? They are worried that they will be in court and in serious trouble.'' The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention tracks outbreaks of infections, which would occur if devices were not sterile. ''To date, there is no strong evidence in this country that reprocessing medical devices leads to more adverse events than single use,'' said Dr. William Jarvis, who heads the infections and prevention branch in the hospital infections program at the centers.
Some maple trees might leave southern New England, which would be a noticeable loss in foliage season. ''There will be changes that offend people,'' Dr. Mendelsohn said. ''But it appears that they will be more gentle than we thought. Scientists had feared that we'd go from some intact forests to moonscapes, but that's not likely to happen. We'll go from one type of ecosystem to another, which for most people will not be that dramatic.'' For Northerners, the savings in heating bills will offset the higher air-conditioning bills in the summer, Dr. Mendelsohn said, but Southerners will see their energy costs increase. Southern coastal dwellers will be more affected by the sea-level rise because there's more low-lying land in the South. Northern skiers will have their own problems. ''SKIING in New York State will undoubtedly be worse,'' Dr. Mendelsohn said. ''But in fact, most outdoor recreation happens in the summer, so there would be a large increase in outdoor recreation from global warming. More people would be hiking and playing golf all fall, as they did this year.''
When the females were again presented with the choice of the same males, they invariably showed much more interest in the former rejects and spent much more time with them than before. Still, the researchers noted that in the end, many females continued to spend the most time with the males they had initially preferred. Luckily, females in some species are more accepting of males whose smells are familiar. So scientists exposed female harvest mice to some male smells but not others. They found that females later preferred the males that smelled familiar, and were much less aggressive toward those males. Dr. Roberts said other researchers had begun using scent manipulation with pandas, exposing them to one another's odors to help mating. Scientists say transferred smells may be important for other purposes as well, including enriching the habitats of captive animals with what Dr. Roberts called a ''scent postcard'' -- a mailed antidote to the misery of the ever-pacing zoo cat or bear.
The news seemed breathtaking. An Alzheimer's vaccine that had previously worked in mice now seemed safe in patients. Many newspapers ran enthusiastic articles; some even put the news on their front pages, signaling that it was among the most important events of the day. Radio and television programs were even more upbeat, hinting strongly that help was on the way for the four million Americans with Alzheimer's. But the eager reporting raises difficult questions of what to say about medical advances and when to say it. The vaccine itself was exciting. But that news came a year ago in an article in the journal Nature. Scientists then reported they had injected mice with a protein that accumulates in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients and is thought to lead to the widespread death of brain cells, resulting in symptoms like loss of memory and of the ability to reason and think. Mice do not get the disease, but these animals had been genetically engineered to make large quantities of the aberrant protein, beta amyloid, which accumulated in their brains.
''We have more research on the safety of antidepressants in pregnant women than any other class of drugs in the world,'' Dr. Stowe said. A number of studies have confirmed that neither the older tricyclic antidepressants nor the newer and more popular selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or S.S.R.I.'s, are associated with an increased risk of malformations in newborns. ''We have over 2,000 cases of women who have been exposed to Prozac during the first trimester, 400 cases of women exposed to Celexa, and several hundred cases for other S.S.R.I.'s like Zoloft and Paxil,'' Dr. Altshuler said. No study has shown an increased risk of congenital malformations, experts agree. One study from Stanford, published in The Journal of Pediatrics, however, did find an increase in minor anomalies like delays in fine motor skills and increased tremors in babies 6 to 40 months old, though these findings did not show up in several longer-term studies.
''We have heard that only one percent of the college population is over 5-feet-10 inches with over 1400 S.A.T. scores,'' Ms. Pinkerton said. Lori Andrews, a professor at Chicago-Kent College of Law, is taken aback by the heights that payments are reaching. ''I think we are moving to children as consumer products,'' Ms. Andrews said. ''When prices for donors reach $50,000, it gets to be a meaningful, life-altering sum,'' she said. Dr. Mark Sauer, who directs the assisted-reproduction program at Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York, said he found women, even Ivy League women, who were willing to donate their eggs for $5,000. And so, Dr. Sauer asks, why would a couple want to pay $50,000? ''I can understand the motive for the donor -- it's like winning the lottery,'' Dr. Sauer said. After all, he said, it takes just three to four weeks to produce eggs. The donor takes fertility drugs to stimulate her ovaries to produce more than a dozen eggs, has regular ultrasound exams so a doctor can follow the eggs' development, and then is anesthetized while a doctor aspirates the eggs from her ovaries through a needle.
Dr. Gregory Simon, the psychiatrist who led the study examining suicide risks, said he hoped that it would allay the fears of the parents of teenagers who are considering taking an antidepressant. ''The risk of a serious suicide attempt or a suicide in people taking an antidepressant is quite low, and on average the risk goes down, not up, after people start taking those medicines,'' Dr. Simon said. Dr. Simon is a researcher at Group Health Cooperative, a nonprofit insurer in the Pacific Northwest that covers about 500,000 people. The study examined suicides and hospitalizations for suicide attempts in the medical records of 65,103 members of Group Health who received antidepressants from 1992 to 2003. The study found that patients were significantly more likely to attempt or commit suicide in the month before they began drug therapy than in the six months after starting it. On one level, that finding is not surprising, because a serious suicide attempt is likely to prompt psychiatric treatment. But if the newer antidepressants posed a significant suicide risk, suicide attempts would probably rise, not fall, after treatment began, Dr. Simon said.
In desperation he saw Dr. Rainville, who prescribed stretching, weight lifting and aerobic exercise. In the beginning Mr. Lundqvist could barely walk a block, but after four weeks, he was running at least a half hour on a treadmill. Now, four months into his exercise program, his back pain rates only a 2 or 3, with periods of no ache at all. And he is back behind the wheel, racing around the track at 175 miles an hour. ''It's the exercise, but it's also the mindset,'' Mr. Lundqvist said, explaining his turnaround. ''I realized that I don't have to be afraid that this will get worse.'' Ms. Castro, too, found relief in movement. She stumbled onto a yoga class and her flexibility increased with each session. ''When I started, I couldn't even begin to touch my toes,'' she said. Now she can reach her knee with her nose, and more important, she can straighten up enough to see herself in the mirror when she is brushing her teeth.
Whenever a new finding is announced, scientists and clinicians are doing nothing more than making their best guess at the moment. We have to stay tuned, because with more studies we can make an even better guess. Unfortunately, people often infer (and the news media often give the impression) that these guesses and hypotheses are the ''truth.'' I was once told by a television interviewer that the problem was that women needed ''the answers'' on breast cancer. I replied that I thought it was the media that require ''the answers'' and that women are perfectly able to make the best decision possible based on inadequate information. They do this every day. And women understand that the answers may change with further data. Tamoxifen is a perfect example of how medical knowledge evolves. It was first developed in 1962 as a ''morning after'' birth-control pill that was effective in rats. In humans, however, tamoxifen had the opposite effect: it was found to be a fertility drug. Luckily, a British doctor, Arthur Walpole, thought to test tamoxifen in women with breast cancer. It was known that many cancers were sensitive to estrogen, and he hypothesized that an antiestrogen agent might help. Indeed it did. Doctors then proved that it worked in women with advanced breast cancer, and then in women with newly diagnosed breast cancer.
''This is the first time anyone has demonstrated the ability to either totally prevent plaque deposition, or to make the deposits remove themselves,'' said Dr. Steven DeKosky, chairman of the scientific and medical advisory board of the Alzheimer's Association and head of the Alzheimer's disease research center at the University of Pittsburgh. ''This finding is really exciting on a couple of levels,'' Dr. DeKosky said. ''The biggest issue is the use of immunization. It's very clever to have tried that.'' This is the first time the association has expressed optimism about any pharmaceutical development in treating or preventing the disease. ''It is a radical innovation, a creative approach,'' said Roger Rosenberg, a professor of neurology at the University of Texas Southwest Medical Center in Dallas, and past president of the American Academy of Neurology. ''I don't remember anyone proceeding with an immunization.'' The Elan scientists said they had been concerned that an immunization might prompt inflammation in the brain, giving rise to conditions like encephalitis or multiple sclerosis, but that no such symptoms had been observed in the mice. To their surprise, they said, not only did the immune system mount antibodies against the amyloid protein, but scavenger cells also appeared to clear the accumulated plaque from the brains of the diseased mice.
Dopamine may also make some people more vulnerable to addiction. Recent studies in both animals and humans have indicated that those with low levels of dopamine D2 receptors, which regulate the release of dopamine in the brain, are more likely to find the experience of taking drugs pleasurable. Some researchers, like Volkow, suggest that people with fewer D2 receptors experience a less intense reward signal, causing them to overindulge in order to feel satisfied. In one experiment, Volkow increased the level of dopamine D2 receptors in rats that had low levels. After the increase, the rats significantly curtailed their intake of alcohol, which they had eagerly gulped down before. Unfortunately, we don't yet know how to safely increase the number of dopamine D2 receptors in humans. In fact, we don't yet know how to do much when it comes to dopamine and addiction. Understanding how the neurotransmitter works may help us to understand addiction better, but it hasn't led to any effective medications, the ultimate goal of many researchers. Because addiction seems to disrupt so many different brain regions, neuroscientists are now casting a wider net in their pursuit of effective medications. For some, the new frontier involves the brain's two major ''workhorse'' neurotransmitters: GABA and glutamate.
''Most family doctors don't know a lot about E.D.,'' he said, using the abbreviation for erectile dysfunction. ''They'll say to a 21-year-old: 'You want Viagra? Fine -- what else is bothering you?' '' And many younger users are not included in statistics because they avoid doctors' offices altogether, getting impotence drugs anonymously through online pharmacies or from local dealers who peddle the pills on classified-listings Web sites. In some cases, they even deliver. Contrary to some men's expectations, impotence drugs do not enhance libido; they work by increasing blood flow to the penis. Users have to become sexually excited to initiate the response, and after orgasm, typically lose their erections as they would without the drugs. Sex therapists say a number of things could be contributing to the use of the drugs by otherwise healthy young men. Exposure to pornography, some speculated, has desensitized some men to less extreme sexual stimuli.
''Today, the first option for the majority of patients with B.P.H. is certainly medication,'' said Dr. Steven Kaplan, the vice chairman of the department of urology at New York Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia-Presbyterian Center. Three types of medication are available: * Alpha blockers (Hytrin, Cardura or the suitably named Flomax) are usually tried first. They improve urinary flow by relaxing smooth muscles of the prostate and the opening of the bladder, and can relieve symptoms regardless of prostate size. (B.P.H. symptoms may be caused by chronic muscle spasms rather than by prostate enlargement.) Men know quickly whether the drug is working -- sometimes in less than a week. The drugs may cause dizziness or lightheadedness, so some doctors recommend taking them at bedtime. * Proscar shrinks prostate tissue and works best for men with significantly enlarged prostates. It can take up to six months before improvement is noticeable, but Proscar may actually help stop B.P.H. from progressing. In a study involving more than 3,000 men, reported at the American Urological Association's 1998 annual meeting, researchers found that men taking Proscar for four years were only half as likely as men on placebos to need surgery for B.P.H. or to experience urinary blockage. Proscar may stimulate hair growth in balding men (it has the same active ingredient as Propecia), but may also cause abdominal pain and difficulty with erections.
Women, especially petite women, are more vulnerable to hyponatremia, but experts aren't sure why. Weight is a factor: ''If both men and women drink a gallon of water in the course of a race, the smaller woman dilutes her blood more than the male,'' Dr. Kenney said. Women may also be too conscientious about dehydration. ''If you ask a male runner how much he drank in a race, he'll say two swallows, while a woman will say two glasses,'' Dr. Roberts said. If you are planning to exercise for several hours, consider consuming more salt along the way. This advice applies especially to heavy sweaters and high-salt sweaters; you are one if your face and clothing are crusted white after a workout. Dr. Mark Tarnopolsky, a specialist in neuromuscular disorders and an adventure racer in Hamilton, Ontario, recommends snacking on pretzels or Pringles (his personal favorite), adding a pinch of salt to a water bottle or consuming sports drinks with extra sodium. (Gatorade's new Endurance Formula, for example, has 200 milligrams of sodium, compared with its regular Thirst Quencher with 110 milligrams.)
It is a common, yet horrifying image. A traffic accident, a shooting, a fall or a stabbing. And the victim lies dead in a pool of blood, life drained away by severe hemorrhaging that could not be stopped in time. As blood is the fluid of life, the loss of it can be the harbinger of death. Blood loss through wounds claims tens of thousands of lives each year, but researchers are working to change that by developing a type of bandage that clots blood instantly. Scientists with the American Red Cross have teamed with United States Army researchers to produce bandages and other dressings that they say can seal a severe, bleeding wound in seconds with a tough, artificial scab. After about eight years of work in the laboratory and with animals, the researchers say the sealants are almost ready for human trials. If the dressings prove effective and safe in the real world, scientists say, they could radically change emergency treatment for civilians and soldiers, saving thousands of lives now routinely lost.
The 8 to 1 vote to endorse Pargluva was the second advisory vote this week in favor of a new diabetes treatment. On Thursday, a panel with some of the same members voted to recommend Exubera, a new inhaled form of insulin developed by Pfizer in partnership with Sanofi-Aventis and Nektar Therapeutics. Both panel votes raised conflict-of-interest issues, according to an analysis by the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a Washington consumer group that has pushed to end such conflicts. Several members of the Pargluva panel who, unlike Dr. Plutzky, participated, had conflicts that were disclosed to the F.D.A. ''The public's faith in the integrity of the process is undermined when one-third of an advisory committee's membership has significant financial ties to the company seeking the product's approval,'' said Merrill Goozner, director of the center's Integrity in Science project. In a news release yesterday, the center said three of the Exubera committee's nine members had previously consulted or spoken for Pfizer or Nektar Therapeutics. One other member of that panel -- the acting chairman -- held stock in the Pfizer, the center said, but the news release did not note that he voted against Exubera. One of the panel members participated, but did not vote, as result of his industry ties.
For a glimpse of what post-human athletes may look like beginning in the 2012 or 2016 Olympics, take a look at an obscure breed of cattle called the Belgian Blue. Belgian Blues are unlike any cows you've ever seen. They have a genetic mutation that means they do not have effective myostatin, a substance that curbs muscle growth. A result is that Belgian Blues are all bulging muscles without a spot of fat, like bovine caricatures of Arnold Schwarzenegger. (I have posted a photograph of a Belgian Blue at www.nytimes.com/kristofresponds.) These mutants may also point to the future of humans, particularly athletes. Gene therapies are being developed that would block myostatin in humans, and they offer immense promise in treating muscular dystrophy and the frailty that comes with aging. But once this gene therapy becomes available for people who really need it, it'll take about 10 minutes before athletes are surreptitiously using it, particularly because, in contrast to today's doping, gene therapy leaves no trace in the blood or urine.
The second category is mild cognitive impairment -- getting confused on the street, not remembering you're supposed to have coins when you get on a bus. At that point, the conversion rate to the third -- full-blown Alzheimer's -- sadly, is very high. After three years, about half the people will not be able to take care of themselves, but the conversion is not total. Some people plateau and seem to go on for a long time. How do you know when to be concerned? BUTLER: One of the rules we use as clinicians is: if you forget your keys, that's not so terrible, but if you forget what a key is for, that becomes serious. Where do you think the breakthroughs will come from in understanding diseases of the brain? GUARENTE: We are looking at genes, because from our perspective everything starts with genetics. Genetics is a key that opens a door that you can walk through, and now you can see: here's what we should be studying. Antiaging genes like sirtuins carry the blueprint for proteins that might be able to ameliorate the cellular damage that accumulates with aging, like oxidation of molecules in cells. The next step, which is a difficult one, would be to develop drugs that stimulate the sirtuins, bolstering the repair of damage in cells. But I'm optimistic that can be achieved.
So last month, after her mother urged her to find a female plastic surgeon, Ms. Gonzales went to see Dr. Nina Shaikh-Naidu. Dr. Shaikh-Naidu, who practices in New York, discussed at length Ms. Gonzales' aesthetic goal and her concern that surgery might diminish breast sensation or her ability to one day breast feed. Three weeks ago Dr. Shaikh-Naidu performed the surgery, and Ms. Gonzales said she has been holding ''viewings'' to show friends her new size 36D breasts. ''I keep wondering whether Dr. Naidu was more sensitive to what I wanted and more able to give it to me because she's a woman who has breasts herself,'' Ms. Gonzales said. ''But maybe she's just a better doctor.'' Skin Deep
The result is a fatty plaque, which can continue to grow as more cells migrate into it. If the plaque ruptures, by mechanisms that are poorly understood, platelets, the blood cells responsible for clotting, can stick to the wounded plaque, forming a clot that can impede blood flow.  Starved for oxygen, the tissue supplied by the blood vessel dies. The first statin was discovered in 1976 by Japanese researchers working on molds. The first statin in the United States, called lovastatin, came out in 1980. Early clinical trials showed it to be more effective, with fewer side effects, than other cholesterol-lowering drugs at the time, like gemfibrozil and niacin. The Food and Drug Administration approved it as a prescription drug in 1987. Statins are believed to ameliorate cardiovascular disease in many ways besides simply lowering cholesterol. They appear to stabilize fatty plaques, relax blood vessels and inhibit clotting. They may promote growth of new blood vessels, as reported by Tufts University researchers in the September issue of Nature Medicine. Some experts believe that, like aspirin, they may soon be used to treat heart attacks immediately after they occur.
The work fits well with current thinking about adult obesity, medical experts say. The condition appears to have a strong genetic component -- most fat people are thought to inherit genes that keep them fat, despite their best efforts to reduce. And so it might be expected that the children of fat parents would be more likely to have a genetic predisposition to be fat themselves. But scientists do not know whether a child's weight as an adult is predetermined, no matter what diet or exercise program the child is on. That uncertainty is what gives some obesity researchers hope as they work with fat children. Dr. Whitaker says he now focuses his attention on fat children over age 3 who have at least one fat parent. ''The higher the probability of the adverse outcome, the more likely you are to make a spirited recommendation,'' he said. On the other hand, he said, he is still left wondering what exactly to recommend. The problem is that an array of weight-loss programs and nutritional counselors advertise that they can help fat children lose weight and keep it off. But almost none bother to gather or report long-term results.
Health seemed the least of his concerns. True, in 1985 his father had a heart attack at age 47. And true, an examination indicated that Amit himself had high cholesterol. But he addressed the matter with his typical resolve: no pizza -- no cheese at all -- and eggs no more than once a month. But in 1994, Amit's father had another heart attack, this one fatal; he was 56. Amit was upset with the inadequate care that his father had received in India, and resolved to avail himself of the medical expertise here. He consulted an uncle, a doctor, who prescribed cholesterol-reducing medication. He took the medication sporadically until 1998, when another blood test indicated extremely high cholesterol. ''I thought to myself: this is not improving,'' he said. Amit got more serious. He cut fat from his diet. He bought a treadmill and worked out every day. And he religiously took his medication.
If your sundae arrives covered with nuts or your burger smothered with cheese, Ms. Muoz-Furlong suggests keeping the offending dish at your table to make sure you get a new, uncontaminated serving. ''I've heard of cases where nuts are just scraped off the top of a sundae and more whipped cream put on,'' out of pure ignorance. Ultimately you have to look out for yourself. Andrew's motto is ''When in doubt, don't eat it.'' He's never handed out a card, but he warns waiters of his allergy, orders conservatively -- steak and potatoes, for example -- and refuses to sample anyone else's food. It's not a bad idea to consider the availability of medical services while planning your trip. ''If you're going on a long bus trip to a rural area hours from medical care and if you're eating indigenous food, there's a chance that someone will have a reaction and that it will be harder to treat,'' said Dr. Li. Experts recommend finding out how to call an ambulance, where the major medical centers are, how the health system works and even whether paramedics routinely carry ephedrine. Make sure you have adequate insurance and enough cash to cover any emergency. Your doctor, the local American embassy or some of the organizations listed below may be able to help you find a doctor or clinic familiar with your condition.
Dr. Tvedten likened the regulations to ''death by a thousand scratches.'' In part because of the legal, financial and emotional pressures, the number of doctors in Arkansas who perform more than occasional abortions has fallen to three, down from six in the late 1990's. The youngest, Dr. Tvedten, is 59. This reduction mirrors a national trend. Nationally, 1,819 facilities provided abortions in 2000, down from a high of 2,908 in 1982, according to the Guttmacher Institute. Dr. Edwards, 63, said he felt an obligation to stay in business. ''If we retired, I'm not sure anybody else would come to Arkansas and practice,'' he said. ''We can't get residents from the hospital to come over and see what an abortion is like.'' Threats against abortion clinics are on the decline, in part because of sterner laws to protect clinics. But picketing has remained steady, at 80 percent of clinics. Dr. Edwards and Ms. Osborne said they felt isolated from the local medical community and the community at large. Even the patients often have a negative view of abortion. ''I very often hear, 'I don't believe in this, but my situation is different,''' Ms. Osborne said.
''If you followed it exactly, you lost 10 pounds,'' recalled Ms. Gallagher, 62. ''But, oh, it was hard to get down.'' And it was always hard to keep the weight off, she said, because her retired husband does most of the cooking and his fare tends toward fried foods. She learned to avoid catching her reflection in the beauty shop mirror. ''I used to work away from it, and when I turned my lady around to the mirror, I looked at her,'' she said. ''All day long, I never looked at myself.'' When she entered the L-Marc trial, Ms. Gallagher was carrying 193 pounds on her 5-foot-6-inch frame, a weight that had pushed her over the line into statistical obesity. She lost 23 pounds in the four-month L-Marc study, which she completed in December. She still does not know whether she took a placebo or a real pill twice a day. Nor does she know whether she was helped by a pill or by the nutritionists who counseled her and weighed her each week.
A related mission of the clinic, therefore, is improving methods of treatment for rare syndromes as a way of breaking the cycle of objections to screening. If a disorder can be treated, then testing for it becomes less controversial. To this end, Morton invited Kevin Strauss, a young Harvard-trained pediatrician, to join the clinic, the first time a second doctor has taken full responsibility for patients. In part, Morton brought Strauss aboard because he wanted someone in the clinic whose training is more up-to-date than his own. And in part he is there to give Morton time to share the clinic's knowledge with the rest of the medical world. Until Strauss arrived, Morton had written very little of what he knew about GA1 treatment for publication in scientific journals. And that has caused some in medical circles to think of him as a maverick and an outsider, because serious scientists validate what they know through publication and peer review.
''It really moved me that she just mobilized the resources she had to get people out of there,'' Dr. Ginsberg said. Dr. Ginsberg, a family practitioner with Kaiser Permanente, met Ms. Overstreet Smith to offer medical triage help to the hurricane survivors. But Ms. Overstreet Smith's response took her in a different direction, she said, recalling her remarks: ''What we really need around here is a free medical clinic. We're sending ill people to the emergency room all the time because there are no clinics near here.'' ''I said, 'That's a great idea,' '' Dr. Ginsberg said, '' 'and if you ever get it going, you let me know, and maybe I can help you out.' '' But Ms. Overstreet Smith did not let the opportunity pass. She took the doctor to a church-owned building that she was using as her office, and offered it up as a clinic. ''Part of me wanted to run away and not get involved,'' Dr. Ginsberg said. ''But she was putting this opportunity in front of me. It just wasn't an option to say, 'No, I'm not interested.' ''
''Digital mammography doesn't represent a revolution in mammography; it's still mammography,'' said Dr. Robert Smith, director of cancer screening at the American Cancer Society. ''Women today should not feel they're getting a substandard mammogram in film. Film mammography, when done well, is very accurate and very effective.'' But women may want to take advantage of computer-aided detection, which is available in more than 100 centers nationwide.
Until he had to have emergency surgery last year, Fidel Castro -- who turned 80 this year -- was considered a model of vibrant long life in Cuba. But it was only last week that he acknowledged in an open letter that his initial surgery by Cuban doctors had been botched. He did not confirm, however, that a specialist had been flown in from Spain last December to help set things right. THE WORLD
But, he said, ''there's an intermediate group -- men over 45 with one or two risk factors, the same for women over 50 -- whose 10-year risk of a heart attack is between 10 and 20 percent.'' For these intermediate-risk people, who comprise 30 to 40 percent of American adults, he added, ''we're finding that calcium scanning can help us in deciding how aggressively we need to treat them.'' Taking a Little 'Slice' of Your Heart BODY scanning uses computed tomography, known as CT, in which computer software translates an X-ray image into a digitized cross-section, or ''slice,'' called a tomogram. Scanning centers use either electron-beam CT, in which electron bursts are converted into X-rays; or helical ( spiral) CT, an X-ray gun that takes images while spinning around the patient. Although most centers use helical CT, electron-beam CT has been evaluated more extensively for heart scanning. For the electron-beam scan, which takes about a minute, the patient lies on a table that slides into the scanner. As the table moves incrementally, a beam of electrons bounces off tungsten plates in the scanner and is converted into X-rays. Electrodes attached to the patient's chest allow the scanner to take images between heartbeats, minimizing blur.
But is it? Researchers have asked whether animals that are sexually attractive are also healthy, getting mixed results. It appears to be true for some species, not for others. When it comes to humans, the evolutionary biology hypothesis was harder to test. Yet it certainly has a ring of truth. ''If you look at any sign of ill health, it's the opposite of what we consider beautiful,'' said Nancy Etcoff, a psychologist at the Harvard Medical School and the author of the new book ''Survival of the Prettiest: The Science of Beauty'' (Doubleday). ''There is no culture in which yellow, cracked teeth or thinning hair or broken bones are not considered unattractive or ugly.'' On the other hand, she added, ''Youth and strength, clear skin, shining eyes, thick hair and good teeth are associated with the things we consider beautiful.'' Some doctors, who are focusing on health, not beauty, say they nonetheless use a patient's appearance as an indicator of illness.
What Nimer knew with the horrified intimacy of long clinical practice, but what my mother could not yet know, was just how agonizing the effects of an unsuccessful stem-cell transplant can be: everything from painful skin rashes to inordinately severe diarrhea to hallucinations and delirium. To me, torture is not too strong or hyperbolic a word. After my mother's declaration, Nimer only nodded and began talking about where the best place might be for her to have the stem-cell transplant, going over with her the variations in different medical research centers' approaches to transplantation. After the transplant failed, and my mother returned from Seattle, Nimer obviously knew how long the odds were against an experimental drug like Zarnestra inducing even a brief extension of her life. But he said he felt that he had to try, both because the drug had had some success and because my mother had told him (and me) from the outset that she wanted her doctors to do everything possible, no matter how much of a long shot it was, to save or prolong her life.
Now, a mechanical device implanted in his lower right abdomen does the yeoman's task of pumping blood through Mr. Fantauzzi's body. His own heart, Dr. Gass said, ''is basically useless.'' As temporary solutions go, it is not bad. A couple of months ago, for example, Mr. Fantauzzi strapped on his battery pack and joined Dr. Gass for lunch and a visit to a  museum nearby. ''He didn't spare the bucks,'' Mr. Fantauzzi said. But Mrs. Fantauzzi was recently struck by a car, and is recovering from two broken legs at a rehabilitation center. For now, the Fantauzzis comfort each other by telephone and messages carried by their three children. The accident intensified the difficulty of Mr. Fantauzzi's wait. He is ranked among the most urgent on the regional waiting list for a transplant. But the heart has to be just right; among other criteria, it must be the right size and blood type.
Dr. McClellan, 40, will need all that expertise and more to carry out the new Medicare law successfully. Under that law, Medicare beneficiaries can obtain drug discount cards this June and full-fledged drug benefits starting in January 2006. But the law also gives private health insurance plans a big new role in Medicare, and Democrats, who attack the legislation as overly generous to pharmaceutical and insurance companies, want sweeping changes, which the administration is resisting. As commissioner of food and drugs, Dr. McClellan has tried to stamp out, on safety grounds, a wave of support for allowing imports of lower-cost prescription drugs from Canada. Dr. McClellan is the brother of the White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, and a son of the Texas comptroller, Carole Keeton Strayhorn, who has hinted that she may run for governor in two years. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Dr. McClellan was ''a superb choice.'' Senator Max Baucus of Montana, the senior Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, which oversees both Medicare and Medicaid, said: ''Dr. McClellan was an expert resource throughout last year's Medicare prescription drug negotiations. I found him to be a straight shooter who doesn't allow politics to get in the way of good policy.''
The women in the aspirin group had 40 percent more episodes of severe gastrointestinal bleeding than those in the control group, and they also experienced more episodes of minor bleeding and bruising. Because aspirin therapy carries a risk of bleeding, doctors recommend it only for men and women with an elevated risk of heart disease, gauged by factors like high blood pressure, family history of heart disease, diabetes, smoking and obesity. The United States Preventive Services Task Force, which issues medical practice guidelines, recommends that doctors consider aspirin therapy for men and women whose five-year risk of heart disease is at least 3 percent. The American Heart Association distinguishes between men and women in assessing the level of risk. Men whose risk of heart disease in the next 10 years is at least 10 percent are considered candidates for aspirin therapy. But women should not be advised to take aspirin unless their 10-year risk is 20 percent, or if it is 10 percent and they have controlled high blood pressure.
Surprisingly, their benefits do not  seem to be limited to the heart. A recent study of more than 6,000 patients showed that statin use reduced the risk of hip fracture by 50 percent in elderly patients with osteoporosis. The number of people taking statins has grown enormously over the past few years. According to IMS Health, a group that tracks prescription drug sales for the pharmaceutical industry, statins now account for $8.1 billion in drug sales, 6 percent of the total United States prescription drug market and more than any other class of drugs. (Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, like Prozac and Paxil, are second.) Last year, sales of atorvastatin alone, marketed by Pfizer as Lipitor, grew to $3.56 billion from $2.44 billion, a 46 percent rise. The total number of statin prescriptions grew by 20 percent during that time, three times the average for other drugs. Most patients have had very good results. Enid Durant, a 77-year-old Brooklyn woman with diabetes and high blood pressure, recently started taking Lipitor on the advice of her doctor. Within a few months, her total cholesterol level had dropped to 160 from 220 (below 200 is considered normal), and she suffered no side effects. Her doctor was pleased with the results, and so was she.
Manufacturers' product reports can also mask serious problems. The reason is simple: while defibrillator makers, for example, provide broad measures of device performance, most companies do not provide doctors with detailed breakdowns of the various ways in which a particular model is failing. Such detailed data, as the recent recall by Guidant shows, is critical because not all product failures are equal. Instead, different types of failures can have different consequences for patients. For example, when defibrillator batteries fail, patients are typically alerted by a beeping sound, allowing them time to see a doctor. But the type of failure affecting the recalled Guidant model, the Ventak Prizm 2 DR, involved something far more significant -- a short circuit that could occur, without warning, when the unit was charging to deliver a potentially life-saving shock. Some physicians say that if manufacturers were forced to publicly disclose more of the safety data they collected, the device industry would be spurred to produce better products.
''When I began, experts laughed when we spoke about treating spinal cord injuries,'' Dr. Young remembered. ''The word cure was a four-letter word. I was nave. I thought, once the science was done, people would rush to embrace this work, but I found that the deadly combination of inertia and pessimism combined made the field hard to change.'' PUBLIC LIVES
ICSI was discovered by accident seven years ago when Belgian doctors inadvertently injected a man's sperm directly into a woman's egg while trying to inject the sperm into a space between the egg's outer and inner membranes. No one thought the method would work -- when scientists had injected whole sea urchin sperm into sea urchin eggs, the sperm had briskly swum around in the eggs' cytoplasm and showed no sign of fertilizing the eggs. But, astonishingly, the human egg began to divide and turned into an embryo, then a fetus, then a baby. Overnight, a revolutionary treatment emerged. With ICSI, any man who produces sperm, even if he does not ejaculate the sperm, even if sperm never mature in his testes, even if sperm die on their way to being ejaculated, can become a father. Doctors can take sperm that were ejaculated or can remove sperm from the testicles and inject a single sperm cell into a single egg, fertilizing it.
''My doctor prescribed Vioxx for me,'' Ms. Hamill said on the show, ''and it's as if I've been given a new life. It's just -- it's been amazing.'' Cox-2 inhibitors were developed in response to discoveries about a decade ago that cyclooxygenase, or COX, came in two forms, one of which appears to help protect the stomach from ulcers and another associated with pain or inflammation. Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs work by inhibiting both forms of COX, thus raising the risk of ulcers. (Tylenol and other acetaminophen-based pain relievers don't ease inflammation, and so do not pose the same risk to the stomach.) Cox-2 inhibitors only block the form of cyclooxygenase associated with inflammation and pain, and thus in theory reduce the risk of ulcers. Studies sponsored by both companies -- there are, as yet, no independent clinical studies -- have shown that patients taking either Vioxx or Celebrex have a lower incidence of ulcers than those taking other pain relievers. Ulcers can be a painful side effect of regularly taking aspirin, ibuprofen or other anti-inflammatory pain relievers. In rare cases, the ulcers can become serious, resulting in hospitalization and even death.
Emily Bazelon is a senior editor at Slate.
The A.M.A.'s new registry, administered partly through a Web site, will enable doctors listed in its Masterfile to indicate that they do not want their prescribing data shared with pharmaceutical sales representatives. The decision will remain in force for three years. And yet, even those doctors' prescription information will still be collected and transmitted to drug companies, whose other uses of the data include tallying bonuses paid to pharmaceutical representatives, which are based on sales. ''What we've always stressed is that physicians have rights and they can always tell pharmaceutical representatives that they don't want to be called upon,'' said Mr. Musacchio. But he said the organization had always made clear to the pharmaceutical industry that its representatives should never ''badger or embarrass or harass'' physicians. ''They sometimes try to get their point across a little too strongly,'' he said.
So, I started landscaping. I have an acre of land and I started making gazebos and stone walkways. After I started landscaping, my whole life turned around. I never got to the point of feeling suicidal, but I tell you if I hadn't gotten a hobby or become deeply involved in something, there was a good chance. Now I'm busy all day long and at no time do I stay alone to myself. So my secret to anybody, man or woman with open heart surgery, is to become involved with something after the operation. If I had people around me immediately after the second operation I do not think I would have gotten as low as I did. Sheila Schrier, 64  Orange, Conn. I had my operation on Aug. 29, 2000. The operation makes you think of your mortality. I wouldn't say I had depression -- more of an annoyance with people telling me that everything was all right.
Amgen responded cautiously to the findings, saying it was starting research with a new formulation of the hormone that remained in the body longer, in hopes that it might be more effective. A spokesman, David Kaye, said the study being published today ''demonstrates that providing injections of endogenous leptin did indeed produce weight loss.'' But some experts say the study shows that leptin failed as a weight-loss drug. ''You would have to look at it and say there has not yet been any convincing evidence that this is a therapeutic benefit in anything other than a minor fraction of patients,'' said Dr. Jeffrey S. Flier, chief of endocrinology at the Beth Israel Deaconness Medical Center in Boston. Dr. Jules Hirsch, an obesity researcher at Rockefeller University in New York, agreed. ''The great hope for leptin has not held up,'' Dr. Hirsch said. ''It doesn't look to me like what's wrong with human beings is a deficit of leptin.''
''It's a crucial moment for calorie restriction,'' said Dr. Mark P. Mattson, who heads the Laboratory of Neurosciences at the National Institutes of Health's National Institute on Aging in Baltimore. ''We're at a stage where increasing people's average life span isn't just a fiction.'' In January, Dr. Mattson, who's been skipping breakfast himself for 20 years and is a delicate 5-foot-9 and 120 pounds, will begin the first major study on the long-term effects of meal skipping on humans. Men and women between the ages of 40 and 50 will be screened to see how blood pressure, cholesterol, immune function and other markers respond to one daily meal versus three. Another institute study already underway at three university research centers (Washington University, Tufts and Louisiana State) is looking at whether lighter meals reduce the risks of age-related chronic diseases -- like heart disease and Alzheimer's -- and lead to longer and more productive lives.
Why would cardiologists want to subject patients to an elective treatment they might not need? Part of the answer is that huge numbers of Americans -- about two million a year -- are being given angiograms, the imaging test that shows narrowings, or stenosis, in the coronary arteries. Once cardiologists see a narrowing, it is very difficult not to want to do something about it. Dr. Eric Topol, chairman of the department of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic, calls it ''the occulostenotic reflex.'' ''You see a narrowing, and you think, We need to do a stent,'' he says. ''That is a problem, because so many narrowings are innocent -- they don't need a stent; they aren't tied to symptoms in the patient. But you get on the train, and you can't get off once it's moving.'' Too many cardiologists, Topol says, do not do enough to treat the chronic condition, the underlying problems like high cholesterol that are causing the narrowing. They need to encourage their patients to adopt a healthier lifestyle, for instance, and to prescribe anti-cholesterol medication and aspirin. ''There is a big force to do angioplasty procedures,'' he says. ''It can be done quickly; it is quite safe; and cardiologists find it relatively lucrative -- and that's not helping matters.'' But also driving many elective angioplasties is the unspoken hope that the operation will be a magic bullet, a quick and safe procedure that will prevent a heart attack sometime in the future.
Barbara Katz Rothman, a City University sociologist whose most recent book, ''Genetic Maps and Human Imagination,'' addresses issues involving reproductive technology, said a similar case occurred recently in Holland. In that case, a white woman receiving in vitro treatment received implants of her eggs, fertilized by a white man, but the clinic mixed in eggs from another woman, fertilized by a black man. The woman gave birth to two boys, one black, one white, and is now raising both children, Ms. Rothman said. Such cases, she said, raise murky philosophical questions. ''We're raising all kinds of questions about what is the meaning of the ties between a parent and a child and between any people and how we are related to each other,'' she said. ''What concerns me is with all the push toward genetic determination is that we're coming to think of 'real ties' as genetic relationships.'' The Fasano and Rogers case almost certainly will provide ammunition to groups calling for greater Federal and state regulation of fertility treatments. But Dr. Linden said mistakes are very rare. New York, she said, requires that labs file records of procedures with the state. Officials also conduct routine inspections at the 24 licensed in vitro programs in the state.
All of which left the Centers for Disease Control somewhat defensive as it tried to explain the changing numbers. ''We're not saying you can't have an ice cream cone or eat a cheeseburger,'' said Tom Skinner, a spokesman for the centers, which is charged with protecting the nation's health. ''But some people are taking these numbers and saying that obesity is not a public health problem -- and that's simply not the case.'' Mr. Skinner said the government's leading medical authorities still believed that excess weight, and related problems of heart disease, diabetes, hypertension and other conditions, were a huge threat to the public. ''There is an epidemic,'' he said, ''if you look at the sheer number of people who are overweight and obese in this country.'' But he cautioned that ''we want people to understand that all of the science around why people are dying of obesity is evolving.''
''More than ever, one needs to individualize treatments to determine if there really is a need for hormones and to find out what regimen works best for each woman,'' said Dr. Roger A. Lobo of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York. Selecting the right treatment is bound to be challenging and confusing because the scientific data behind most menopausal remedies remain sketchy. The study reported last week is the only randomized clinical trial of hormone replacement therapy in healthy women. Women in the study were given Prempro, a combined estrogen-progestin pill that has been the most widely used form of hormone replacement therapy in the United States. (Progestin is added to estrogen because women who take estrogen alone stand a significant risk of developing uterine cancer.) The estrogen in Prempro is derived from the urine of pregnant mares. Other estrogen supplements are made of estradiol, a synthetic copy of the kind produced by human ovaries. Theoretically, the action of estradiol in the body may be different from that of equine estrogen, but there is no evidence to show that it would be any safer for breast tissue or cardiovascular health.
In the intervening years, the N.I.H. spent several hundred million dollars trying to demonstrate a connection between eating fat and getting heart disease and, despite what we might think, it failed. Five major studies revealed no such link. A sixth, however, costing well over $100 million alone, concluded that reducing cholesterol by drug therapy could prevent heart disease. The N.I.H. administrators then made a leap of faith. Basil Rifkind, who oversaw the relevant trials for the N.I.H., described their logic this way: they had failed to demonstrate at great expense that eating less fat had any health benefits. But if a cholesterol-lowering drug could prevent heart attacks, then a low-fat, cholesterol-lowering diet should do the same. ''It's an imperfect world,'' Rifkind told me. ''The data that would be definitive is ungettable, so you do your best with what is available.'' Some of the best scientists disagreed with this low-fat logic, suggesting that good science was incompatible with such leaps of faith, but they were effectively ignored. Pete Ahrens, whose Rockefeller University laboratory had done the seminal research on cholesterol metabolism, testified to McGovern's committee that everyone responds differently to low-fat diets. It was not a scientific matter who might benefit and who might be harmed, he said, but ''a betting matter.'' Phil Handler, then president of the National Academy of Sciences, testified in Congress to the same effect in 1980. ''What right,'' Handler asked, ''has the federal government to propose that the American people conduct a vast nutritional experiment, with themselves as subjects, on the strength of so very little evidence that it will do them any good?''
Dr. Bloch speculates that the findings, which he is submitting for publication in a peer-reviewed journal, may explain the boys' breast growth. He noted, however, that cells in a test tube are a far cry from humans, so the relationship of the essential oil to breast growth remains hypothetical. While pediatric endocrinologists have implicated pharmaceutical or personal care products for causing pubertal problems in children, some environmental scientists also claim that some widespread industrial and pharmaceutical pollutants harm the normal sexual development of fish and animals. By extension, they may also contribute to earlier or disrupted puberty in children, these scientists contend. Robert Havelock, a senior reproductive toxicologist at the Environmental Protection Agency, said these concerns ''caused a shift in worry from cancer to noncancer'' effects of environmental pollution over the past decade. In 1994, scientists found that estrogen-like chemicals from plastics manufacturing plants that had contaminated sewers in England caused genetically male fish to develop into females. In the early 1980's, major spills of the DDT-like pesticide dicofol in Florida led to the ''feminization'' of the reproductive tracts of male alligators.
Some, like Dr. Dorothy Denning, a computer science professor at Georgetown, and Dr. Cipher Deavours, a professor of computer science and mathematics at Kean University in Union, N.J., said the code was simply impractical for large messages. The larger the message, the longer the string of random numbers needed to encode it, and the more difficult it would be to send. ''It's a cute idea, but it's simply unmanageable,'' Dr. Deavours said. Others, like Dr. Lipton, disagreed.  ''I think it is quite practical,'' he said. And Dr. Rabin insisted that computers would have no problem with the encryption scheme, even with long messages that were sent among a large group of people. Beyond the question of whether the system would work in practice, some question it because, they say, the role of cryptography in protecting privacy has been overblown. ''If you think cryptography is the answer to your problem, then you don't know what your problem is,'' said Dr. Peter G. Neumann, a computer scientist at SRI International in Menlo Park, Calif.
Dr. Chansky said that in research studies on children's resiliency in trauma, the behavior of children's parents consistently emerges as the one factor having the primary effect on a child's adjustment. Even in situations of war, children look to adults for a model of how to respond. Both parents and therapists have wrestled with the question of how to reassure anxious children when they themselves remain so worried. Dr. Chansky said that the important task adults must undertake is to try to process their own distress first, and then help children with their worries. For parents to say that they, too, are still upset can reassure children that their feelings are normal. But Dr. Chansky said there is a significant difference between talking about emotions with a child and continuing to exhibit raw anxiety. Dr. Barbara Bernstein, director of education and training at the Westchester Mental Health Association in Elmsford, said she was concerned about the long-term effect of parents' anxiety on their children. She noted that in the months since the attack, prescriptions written for anti-anxiety and antidepressant medications for adults have increased. She added that she worries about how well focused and available these parents can be.
An arbitrator will listen to both sides of the case and then make a legally binding decision.
New York's Attorney General, Eliot L. Spitzer, has said he will go to court if necessary to force G.E. to pay for a comprehensive cleanup. Today, he said, ''These reports again confirm what has been known for many years: that General Electric's discharges of PCB's have ravaged the Hudson River ecosystem.'' Polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCB's, are a group of 209 related chemicals that were once widely used as insulators in transformers and other electrical equipment. By the environmental agency's estimate, two General Electric plants along the upper Hudson, in the villages of Hudson Falls and Fort Edward, dumped more than a million pounds of PCB's into the river over three decades. The practice was legal at the time. The 40-mile portion of the river covered by today's report stretches from Troy north to the two plants, and includes the six-mile segment, called the Thompson Island Pool, that contains all of the known PCB ''hot spots.'' The State Health Department and the E.P.A. advise against eating any fish caught there.
With the dwarf mouse studies, a paradox about growth hormone and aging has emerged. In people, growth hormone naturally dwindles with age. Scientists suspect that this decline contributes to weakened muscles, thinner bones, increased flab and higher odds of diabetes and heart disease. That is why some doctors, and countless Web sites, claim that injections of human growth hormone, or H.G.H., can build muscle and counter the effects of aging, even though the Food and Drug Administration approves it only for treating shortness in children and growth hormone deficiency in adults. But the mouse research has led Dr. Bartke and other gerontologists to a counterintuitive and controversial theory: that having more growth hormone and IGF-1, as Dr. Bartke put it, is ''not optimal for longevity.'' The long-lived Ames and Snell mice carry natural mutations that make them deficient in growth hormone. The mutations cripple the pituitary gland's release of other important hormones, too; lacking thyroid-stimulating hormone and a reproductive hormone called prolactin, the mice tend to be sluggish, chubby and infertile. ''Dwarf mice would never win any athletic or beauty contest,'' said Dr. Richard Miller, a pathology professor at the University of Michigan Medical School, who studies Snell mice.
The Food and Drug Administration plans to strengthen how it monitors critical heart devices like defibrillators by appointing outside medical experts to help it review the safety of units already on the market, a top agency official says. The move would be the first time the F.D.A. would have outside experts regularly advising it about the safety of medical devices being sold, said Dr. Daniel G. Schultz, director of the agency's Center for Devices and Radiological Health. Traditionally, the F.D.A. has used its advisory panels to help it decide whether to permit the sale of a new device. The agency's decision comes as a medical group that represents doctors who implant devices prepares to release a report recommending changes in how data about heart units is collected and disclosed. Among other proposals, the group, the Heart Rhythm Society, may urge manufacturers to establish an outside panel to review product safety and help companies decide when to issue alerts, people involved in the group said.
Dr. Hugh Sampson, a food allergy expert at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York, is seeking to add a level of precision to diagnosis. He correlates levels of specific IgE with a probability that the person is allergic to a food -- a technique, he says, that reduces the need for food challenge testing by half. Dr. Mitchell, the Manhattan allergist, called that approach promising. ''A lot of academic allergists are very conservative,'' he said. ''But Hugh Sampson's work may turn the tide.'' As for Sarah Marcus, starting last summer she was weaned from allergy shots so she would no longer need them when she went away to college, at the University of Pennsylvania. She has been shot-free and allergy-free since Thanksgiving. ''All in all,'' said her mother, ''if I could go back, if I had a 2-year-old now, I'd never put her through the skin testing.''
''Fat is an important element of flavor,'' Mr. DiSpirito explained. Dr. Jeffrey M. Friedman, an obesity researcher at Rockefeller University, likes to explain weight ranges by analogy with height. With height, he said, people -- and animals -- are pretty much at the mercy of their inheritance, but the environment can -- and does -- make a big difference. After all, he said, the average height of soldiers during the Civil War was 5 foot 4. But while diet can make people grow taller, the upper and lower limits of an individual's height is  set by genes. The same may be true with weight, Dr. Friedman said. ''There's an illusion that you can control weight,'' he said, ''but the facts don't support that.'' Expectations vs. Reality Researchers who have seen what they describe as overwhelming evidence of biologically determined weight ranges say they are becoming weary of hearing promoters of weight-loss programs insist that people could be really thin if they truly wanted to.
They seemed, people said at the time, like normal children from normal families, rattling along the bumpy emotional road that most people believe represents the normal course of the teen-age years. But when psychiatrists investigated the suicides of 27 youths in the Pittsburgh area, interviewing the victims' friends, teachers and family members, their inquiry revealed not normal teen-agers but severely disturbed youths whose psychological problems were longstanding and whose unhappiness had leached out in a hundred clues that were ignored or undetected by those around them. This contrast between surface assessment and underlying reality, mental health experts say, is typical of most cases in which teen-agers have committed acts of extreme violence. Since the shootings in Littleton, Colo., two weeks ago, public discussion has focused on a variety of cultural factors. But the deeper truth of what happened at Columbine High School in Littleton, many experts say, may lie less in the troubles of the world at large than in the problems and personal histories of Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, the two teen-age gunmen, who killed themselves after shooting to death 12 fellow students and a teacher.
So far, Dr. Wang reports, he and Dr. Fu learned some important lessons: First, forceful stretching of tendons elicits the production of molecules that are involved in inflammation. But small repeated stretching of tendons that are already inflamed leads to the production of molecules that heal inflammation. That suggests moderate exercise can actually speed healing. And now, their preliminary results suggest that the usual treatment for tendinitis -- taking drugs like aspirin or ibuprofen -- can help reduce inflammation when the injury begins. But after inflammation is under way, they can make matters worse. But medical experts caution that people have to be careful if they try to exercise when they are injured. Some, like Dr. Fu, who is himself a cyclist, Dr. Roberts, and Dr. Steadman say the first priority is to see a doctor and get an accurate diagnosis in order to rule out a serious injury. Others, like Dr. Weinstein, say that such an injury, a broken bone or a torn Achilles tendon, for example, has symptoms so severe that it is obvious something is really wrong.
AS a New York Knick, Fred Crawford suited up with Bill Bradley and Willis Reed. Later he was a member of the Los Angeles Lakers when Elgin Baylor and Jerry West were the stars of that team. He ended his career with the Milwaukee Bucks, whose center was Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. That was three decades ago. Late last month, as he entered a medical office on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Mr. Crawford moved in what must have seemed like slow motion to him. Decades of constant pounding had taken their toll on his left hip. Pain and weakness prevented him from walking more than three blocks at a time. ''Basketball is a tough business, but you're not thinking about that at the time,'' Mr. Crawford said. His diagnosis: moderately severe osteoarthritis. Mr. Crawford is not alone. About  21 million Americans are afflicted with osteoarthritis. (According to a federal study, the figure will soar to more than 30 million by 2020, as the baby boomers grow older.) Women stand a greater chance than men of developing the disease, especially women over 65. But some arthritis experts are noticing a change in their patients: more men developing severe cases, and earlier, in their 50's rather than in their 60's and 70's, which may be attributed to more participation in strenuous sports.
And urologists, who in general agree that screening may not benefit certain men, particularly the elderly,  are adamant about the test's potential benefits for finding curable cancers in men in their 50's and 60's. Dr. Robert Reiter, co-director of the prostate cancer program at the Jonsson Cancer Center at the University of California at Los Angeles, said that before the P.S.A. test came into widespread use 10 years ago ''80 percent of the cancers we were diagnosing could not be cured.'' ''But thanks to earlier detection possible with P.S.A. testing,'' Dr. Reiter said, ''nowadays 80 percent of the cancers diagnosed can be cured. So there is no doubt that we have pushed the diagnosis to a point so much earlier that things like surgery do work in terms of curing those cancers.'' THERE are famous advocates, too. Arnold Palmer, the golfer, appeared recently in a public service advertisement inviting men to ''Join Arnie's Army.'' Mr. Palmer had tested positive and underwent surgery for prostate cancer in January 1997. ''I can't stress enough the importance of P.S.A. testing,'' Mr. Palmer is quoted saying in the ad. ''Doctors can catch 8 out of 10 cancers before they spread beyond the prostate.''
At the time, Dr. Burn was excited, she said, adding, ''I thought, something is really going to happen on this issue, and it's going to be framed in a positive way.'' Now, she describes the meeting as ''the most expensive endeavor I was ever involved in that had no outcome.'' Ms. Admire-Borgelt said a call from the surgeon general was important, particularly given how politically charged the issue of sex education has been. In a recent survey by the Alan Guttmacher Institute, which receives financing from Planned Parenthood, about 23 percent of teachers said they taught abstinence as the only way to avoid pregnancy and venereal diseases, up from 2 percent in 1988. Though other surveys have shown 9 out of 10 parents favoring comprehensive sex education in schools, the rise of abstinence-only programs reflects the local power exerted by groups on the religious right, backed by Congressional conservatives. The federal government, with state and local matching funds, is spending nearly $500 million over five years on abstinence programs, though bodies like the National Academy of Sciences, the American Medical Association and the National Institutes of Health have criticized them for lacking proof that they work.
The news that thousands of women in a national study were suddenly being taken off hormone replacement therapy ushered in a day of reckoning for the millions of other women who take hormones. They all had the same simple but vexing question: Should I quit, too? As their doctors scrambled for answers, a consensus of sorts seemed to emerge, in which hormone users were divided into two categories: women who had taken them only a year or two to treat hot flashes and other temporary symptoms of menopause and those who had taken them for years. In the short-term, doctors said, hormone replacement therapy still seems safe. But it does not look as promising as it once did for a woman's long-term health. ''If a woman has only been taking hormones for a year or two to treat hot flashes,'' said Dr. Lori Mosca, director of preventive cardiology at New York Presbyterian Hospital, ''it's probably safe for her to go on. But if she's been on hormones for 10 years, it's time to stop.''
About one in three men and one in five women have no regular doctor, a survey of 4,350 Americans projected. Money was a big concern, but beyond that, denial and embarrassment played a role, particularly for men, said Karen Davis, the president of the Commonwealth Fund, the social and health care research foundation in New York City that paid for the survey. Sonny Mehta, president and editor in chief of Random House's Knopf publishing group, had not seen a doctor for five years before having triple-bypass heart surgery in July. In an interview with a British newspaper, Mr. Mehta conceded that he avoided doctors because he knew they would discuss his years of ''bad living.'' ''I've always had a good time,'' Mr. Mehta said, ''maybe too good of a time.'' Previous studies have shown that if patients are unable to express their concerns to a doctor they are not likely to follow the doctor's advice or return for further checkups, said Dr. Samuel Putnam, an internist in  Boston and co-author of ''The Medical Interview.'' He pointed to a study by Dr. Richard Frankel and colleagues that found most doctors interrupted patients 18 seconds into an interview. The findings were published in 1984 in The Annals of Internal Medicine.
Ephedra users who look to supplement shelves for alternatives may find, for example, bitter orange, which is used in many products now advertised as ''ephedra-free.'' The active ingredient in bitter orange is synephrine, a stimulant with pharmacological properties similar to those of ephedrine. ''Like ephedrine, it leads to constriction of blood vessels,'' said Dr. Stephen Bent, a physician at the University of California at San Francisco, who has studied the health risks of ephedra. ''But there have been very few investigations into whether it's safe.'' Bitter orange, like ephedra, is often combined with caffeine. ''The goal of these products is to increase metabolic rate, to burn more calories,'' Dr. Bent said. ''But just about anything that increases metabolic rate is going to raise heart rate, blood pressure and temperature. In people with obesity who may have diabetes or high blood pressure or vascular disease, these products are potentially dangerous, and should be studied.''
The President's Council on Bioethics has proposed a ban on experiments intended to create baby clones (so-called reproductive cloning) and a four-year moratorium on cloning experiments involving the lab cultures that are meant to treat degenerative diseases (sometimes called therapeutic or research cloning). But if the ban goes into effect, said Dr. Walters of the Kennedy Institute, scientists could face criminal penalties for engaging in therapeutic cloning. ''A federal ban at this time would be premature,'' he said. Reproductive cloning, however, is the topic that has captured the public's imagination -- and been the source of the public's horror. Still, it is a term widely misunderstood. While a clone will have the same DNA as the person being cloned, DNA isn't everything. Other than the genome, all else about the clone and the donor -- the egg, the uterus, the parents, the social environment -- will be different. A REVOLUTION AT 50
Mr. Pitel, 46, who said that he lost roughly 26 pounds in 9 weeks, was partly motivated by the check-ins. Once they were over, he lapsed during a high stress period at work. But he has recently started following the book again. ''I've done it before and I know it works,'' he said. Correction:  December 28, 2006, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an article last week about Chris Carmichael, the trainer who helped Lance Armstrong win the Tour de France seven times, misstated the chronology of their professional relationship. Mr. Armstrong won his first Tour in 1999, nine years after meeting Mr. Carmichael; he did not win it a year after they met.
Celera has continued to provide the information to a dwindling number of existing subscribers, and those subscriptions, costing thousands of dollars for a single academic scientist to millions of dollars a year for a big drug company, have provided the bulk of its revenue. But Celera said it would discontinue the service, called the Celera Discovery System, after most of the remaining contracts expire by the end of June. About 25 companies and 200 academic institutions subscribed to Celera's service at its peak; the company would not say how many subscribers were left. Company scientists said they would donate the information on 30 billion base pairs -- the chemical units of DNA -- to a federally run database. The information includes basic DNA sequences for humans, mice and rats and some data on genetic variations but excludes some newer information Celera is using to develop diagnostic tests. Francis S. Collins, the federal scientist who runs the publicly financed project, hailed Celera's move as a ''wonderfully generous contribution'' and ''a strong endorsement of this kind of information ultimately being accessible to anybody.''
So we were spared many of the horrors I encountered while researching this article: no futile bouts in the intensive care unit, no fighting off the tubes or vents or machines, no need to ask ourselves what it was my father would have wanted. But just as we were spared something terrible, we were denied something good too: the chance to make my father's death not only mercifully quick but meaningful. I found myself, as I read about hospice deaths and talked to my friends about the way their loved ones died, trying to imagine what kind of death I'd want for my mother, my husband, myself. I'd like a hospice nurse taking care of us, a nurse like Charles Meys, with comforting hands and a gentle voice and a direct, nonjudgmental gaze. And for myself, rather than dying of a sudden heart attack like my father's, I'd wish for foreknowledge. I'd like to know that death was imminent, and approximately when it would come, and approximately how. But beyond that, the fantasizing stops. Like a dreamer seeing herself fall off a cliff, I can't let myself get to the bottom, can't imagine the final splat.
None of this, however, was exactly the point. The point was cloning, a subject upon which Ral was more than happy to discourse at length. Of course, he said, the cloning project they were undertaking now through Clonaid -- the making or remaking of a baby for his devastated parents -- was really a piffle, a tiny step toward the ultimate goal of eternal life through cloning. The couple's hopes, and of course their money, were a necessary ingredient, but the goal was much larger than them; nothing short, in fact, of the defeat of aging and of death. ''The next step will be to make it possible to clone directly an adult person and not a baby,'' Ral explained, and then to figure out how to ''upload'' his memory into the new body. In the meantime, baby cloning was a good place to start. ''And then,'' he said, ''comes a lot of new technology that we support -- genetic engineering, genetic modification of human beings, improvement of human beings. You can call it eugenics, but not in a bad way, like the Nazi way of thinking before, which results in a superior race. No, cloning would be available to all human beings, to improve their characteristics and possibilities.''
Dr. Mark H. Ebell  Family physician, editor of The Journal of Family Practice, Athens, Ga. I don't think teaching breast self-examination is a good use of the limited time I have with my patients. It's one of the those things where it seems like a good idea, it makes perfect sense, but it doesn't work. I do continue to recommend mammography, starting at age 40. But if we have a patient who's at very low risk for breast cancer, based on her family history and health history, then I think it's reasonable to wait until age 50. The biggest challenge is getting women in their 60's and early 70's to be screened, because that's where there's the clearest evidence of benefit, and you tend to have lower rates of screening. Prostate cancer is different. It's often an indolent, slow-growing cancer, and most men who have it die with it and not of it.
Two years ago, William O. Daniel's doctor adopted a new policy. No longer would the doctor, Herbert Rubin of Beverly Hills, Calif., accept payments from health maintenance organizations. No longer would he be on insurance companies' preferred provider lists. No longer would he even accept Medicare. From then on, if you wanted to see Dr. Rubin, you paid cash. ''That was frightening to me,'' said Mr. Daniel, a 72-year-old retired insurance salesman who lives in Hollywood. Reluctantly, he changed doctors. But, he said, his new doctor's waiting room was always crowded and the doctor seemed pressed for time. ''I had to get out my symptoms in about 20 seconds or he would start interrupting me,'' Mr. Daniel said. ''Then I would have to wait while he saw more patients and then got back to me.'' Now Mr. Daniel has returned to Dr. Rubin, one of a growing number of doctors who have severed their ties to health maintenance organizations and insurance companies. In return for cash payments, the doctors often offer a lavish level of service -- uncrowded waiting rooms, long, uninterrupted office visits, and an office staff that knows the patients.
IT used to be thought of as a cancer of old men, discussed in whispers, involving a very private body part. But now, celebrities from Harry Belafonte to H. Norman Schwarzkopf to Rudolph W. Giuliani are publicly announcing they have had it, and millions of men across the nation are being tested, as early as their 40's and 50's, and discovering they have it, too. It is, of course, prostate cancer. And the dilemma for the growing number of men whose tumors are found when they are small and confined to the prostate is what to do about it. Prostate cancer, said Dr. Michael J. Barry, ''is unlike any other cancer.'' For all the publicity, many men who develop it prefer to keep their diagnosis confidential. And for all the research on treatment, the cancer remains a medical challenge. The disease is usually languorous, with tumors that can grow so slowly they would go unnoticed were it not for cancer screening that detects growths too small to feel. Doctors frequently say that most men die with prostate cancer, not of it. Dr. Barry, who is chief of the general medicine unit at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, explained, ''We know at autopsy that more than half of older men have some prostate cancer.'' But only 3 percent of men die of it, he added. ''We are clearly finding prostate cancers that are not destined to kill.''
''Eat less'' is the most unwelcome advice of all, but in fact the scientific case for eating a lot less than we currently do is compelling. ''Calorie restriction'' has repeatedly been shown to slow aging in animals, and many researchers (including Walter Willett, the Harvard epidemiologist) believe it offers the single strongest link between diet and cancer prevention. Food abundance is a problem, but culture has helped here, too, by promoting the idea of moderation. Once one of the longest-lived people on earth, the Okinawans practiced a principle they called ''Hara Hachi Bu'': eat until you are 80 percent full. To make the ''eat less'' message a bit more palatable, consider that quality may have a bearing on quantity: I don't know about you, but the better the quality of the food I eat, the less of it I need to feel satisfied. All tomatoes are not created equal. 6. Eat mostly plants, especially leaves. Scientists may disagree on what's so good about plants -- the antioxidants? Fiber? Omega-3s? -- but they do agree that they're probably really good for you and certainly can't hurt. Also, by eating a plant-based diet, you'll be consuming far fewer calories, since plant foods (except seeds) are typically less ''energy dense'' than the other things you might eat. Vegetarians are healthier than carnivores, but near vegetarians (''flexitarians'') are as healthy as vegetarians. Thomas Jefferson was on to something when he advised treating meat more as a flavoring than a food.
The condition seems more common among women than men. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, a journal,  recently reported that about half the women studied who finished the New Zealand Ironman triathlon developed hyponatremia, compared with 14 percent of the men. Doctors are not sure why. It may be that women simply drink more water than men. The guidelines, set by the sports medicine organization, call for about 17 ounces of fluid two hours before exercise, and then early and at regular intervals to replace all the water lost through perspiration. Dr. Roberts said that people could calculate their ''sweat rate'' ahead of time by weighing themselves and then exercising for half an hour at the pace and in the conditions they expect in a race. Then they should weigh themselves again to get the number of pounds lost through perspiration.  For every pound lost, they should drink a pint per hour during the race. The guidelines also recommend drinking a sports beverage, like Gatorade, that contains carbohydrates and electrolytes. Sports drinks help prolong an athlete's peak performance and replace sodium lost in perspiration.
In one of the most expansive collaborations between a major medical center and a New York community hospital, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center will help establish a cancer prevention and treatment center at the North General Hospital in Harlem, executives at both centers said yesterday. The center will be known as the Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Prevention and Care, reflecting a $5 million gift from the fashion designer's company. The creation of the center, which is expected to be announced today, springs in part from years of research demonstrating large disparities between blacks and whites in cancer detection and survival rates, as well as Mr. Lauren's interest in breast cancer philanthropy. The center also reflects a subtle but significant shift in the role that Sloan-Kettering, now under the leadership of Dr. Harold Varmus, plays in areas where most people lack access to basic care, let alone the cutting-edge research and high-profile doctors for which Sloan-Kettering is internationally known.
But I suspect that few want to hear these snippets of real evidence. The testimonials are so much more compelling. ''People are desperate,'' Dr. Hirsch said. And, he is tired of seeing the same useless remedies resurface every few decades only to fade away while the next diet fad preys on people's unawareness of what science has learned. ''I call this alchemy,'' Dr. Hirsch said. ''It's making gold out of ignorance.'' ESSAY
Mr. Massey kept waiting to become ill. ''I would read a report saying it could be as long as five years before you come down with symptoms of AIDS and die,'' he recalled. ''Then it would be that it could be as long as seven years, then as long as 10 years, then 12 years. I always thought I was at the limit.'' When Mr. Massey's doctors looked back at his blood samples, which they had stored in hemophilia research projects, they found antibodies to H.I.V. as early as 1979. They and Mr. Massey suspect that he was infected in November 1978 when, like Jim H., he became gravely ill. ''One day I was sitting at my desk and I suddenly felt overwhelmingly tired, incapable of talking, I was so tired,'' Mr. Massey said. He had a fever and symptoms that led doctors to suggest pneumonia, tuberculosis, a cerebral hemorrhage and a seizure disorder.
Half were given the usual treatments to regulate the pressure inside the brain and to maintain the body's functioning while the brain tried to heal itself. The others received the same treatment but, in addition, were chilled to 91.4 degrees and kept cold for 48 hours. In that procedure, they were packed in ice, ice water was flushed into their stomachs, and they were then tucked into frigid blankets. In each group, 57 percent of patients either died or remained unconscious or severely disabled. But as a whole, the patients who were chilled actually spent slightly more days in the hospital with medical complications than those whose bodies were kept at a normal temperature. Medical experts said the findings would be important to doctors seeking ways to help patients with severe head injuries, usually arising from accidents like car wrecks or motorcycle crashes. Such traumatic brain injury kills about half its victims, some 75,000 Americans a year, and is the leading cause of death and disability in people under age 45, said Dr. Mary Ellen Cheung, the project officer for traumatic brain injury at the National  Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.
In the parthenogenesis experiments, the scientists at Advanced Cell Technology started with 22 human eggs, chemically stimulating them to divide. Most died within a day or so. Six lasted for five days, but, as in the other experiments, the embryos died before forming stem cells. Dr. West said he was encouraged even though the experiments did not provide the stem cells the company sought. ''We're optimistic,'' he said in a telephone interview. But some scientists were not impressed. ''It's a complete failure,'' said Dr. George Seidel, a cloning expert at Colorado State University in Fort Collins. For a first attempt, he added, ''they've progressed about as well as you'd expect, or slightly worse.'' Dr. Steen Willadsen, a cloning pioneer in Windermere, Fla., said, ''If one were to take a positive view of this, then one would say there are some problems with the approach they are taking -- it hasn't worked.''
Enhancing the mystery in this side of Newton, the alchemical and theological papers remained in private hands from Newton's death in 1727 until they were sold at a Sotheby's auction in London in 1936. Among the buyers was Keynes, the legendary Cambridge economist and monetary expert, who scooped up the bulk of the alchemical writings chiefly to save them. Keynes then donated his holdings to Kings College, Cambridge, though not before studying Newton in his spare time. ''There are stories that Keynes read these things in taxis going from one Treasury meeting to the next,'' Dr. Iliffe said. Many of Newton's theological writings were purchased from Sotheby's by Abraham Yahuda, an iconoclastic scholar who enlisted the services of Einstein, a close friend, in an effort to resell them. Despite letters from Einstein vouching for the papers' importance, several prominent American universities are said to have declined to acquire the collection, which wound up in a Jerusalem archive. In all, nearly 40 libraries, from Jerusalem to Geneva to Los Angeles, now own portions of Newton's work; bits of it have circulated on microfilm.
Dr. Lobo said he had been moving toward lower doses of estrogen over the last several years. It is logical to assume that lower doses will pose less risk to breast and heart health, he said, though no studies have proved that. Dr. Lobo also sometimes prescribes lower doses of progestin. Some women, he has found in his own practice, can take it for just 10 to 12 days every two or three months. Estrogen can be given in the form of patches, too, which are typically placed on the abdomen. The patches deliver a steady stream of estrogen or estrogen plus progestin directly to the bloodstream for a few days or a week at a time. Some believe that patches may be safer because the estrogen does not go directly through the liver. ''This is also effective for menopause symptoms,'' said Dr. Deborah Grady, director of the Mount Zion Women's Health Clinical Research Center at the University of California in San Francisco. ''But has anyone ever tested transdermal estrogen to see if it's more safe? Well, no.''
Referring to the large clinical trial of hormone therapy in women that was halted last month, Dr. McKinlay added: ''We ended up, finally, after everyone was getting it, with 45 million prescriptions in the U.S. each year. And suddenly we find that not only does it not do what it is supposed to do but there are these untoward consequences. ''We are about to repeat that debacle. We have the slimmest evidence on testosterone replacement. Five men here, 10 men there. Six rats and a partridge in a pear tree. The physiology is not there but the industry, the industry is there.'' Dr. Richard Hodis, director of the National Institute on Aging, also expressed concern. ''We recognize this as a potentially important public health issue,'' Dr. Hodis said. ''In understanding the role of testosterone replacement, we are in many ways where we were decades ago with estrogen replacement with women. It is clear that we do not know enough to inform men and their doctors on the potential advantages or risks of hormone replacement.''
It is a popular sport to joke that scientists change their minds from year to year about what people should do to stay healthy. One year, we should all be taking beta carotene supplements. The next year, the supplements themselves seem to cause cancer. One year, it is high iron levels in the blood that are causing heart disease. The next year it is low levels of folic acid. It becomes all too tempting to recall the scene from Woody Allen's movie ''Sleeper'' in which the hero wakes up in the future and discovers that science has decreed that all those health foods he had been forcing down are actually injurious to health. The healthy foods are things like sumptuous desserts and hamburgers. The bad foods are things like bran and vegetables. Predictably, references to ''Sleeper'' are starting again. It is not hard to see why when, within weeks, data from large and rigorous studies have thrown into question two long-held assumptions about preventive medicine.
The new class of drugs called protease inhibitors revolutionized the care of H.I.V. patients in 1996. But many people who took the drugs began to lose fat tissue in their cheeks, arms, legs and buttocks. Many also developed a paunch -- nicknamed ''Crix belly'' after Crixivan, one protease inhibitor -- and they gained weight in their upper trunks. The weight loss and weight gain, known respectively as peripheral lipoatrophy and central lipohypertrophy, were generally treated as a single phenomenon involving the redistribution of body fat. Some patients refused the new drugs because they worried that this syndrome, called lipodystrophy, would mark them as having H.I.V. or AIDS. But growing a big belly is not part of any such syndrome, according to a new study of H.I.V.-infected men. The study, published recently in The Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, found that any weight gain in people who took the drugs was associated with age, not with H.I.V. or protease inhibitors.
Over all, on the ACT, Asian-American students earned the highest average composite score, 21.8, compared with 21.7 for Caucasians, 19.0 for Puerto Rican/Hispanic students, 18.3 for Mexican American/Chicano students and 16.9 for African-Americans. ''Our research has shown that far too many African-American students are not being adequately prepared for college,'' Mr. Ferguson said. ''It has shown that they are less likely than others to take rigorous, college-preparatory courses and that they often don't receive the information and guidance they need to properly plan for college.'' There was only a minimal difference in the average ACT scores of men and women. Men had an average composite score of 21, while women had an average of 20.8. According to recent research by ACT, the difference is attributable to the higher number -- and therefore broader spectrum -- of women who take the test. In the class of 2003, 56 percent of the test-takers were female and 44 percent were male.
Of course, many women simply try to put up with menopausal symptoms, without taking pills or supplements of any kind. They dress in layers, open windows, drink cold beverages and wait it out. For some, deep breathing techniques seem to help. ''In studies, they seem to actually reduce body temperature and reduce the severity or prevent the recurrence of the hot flash,'' Dr. Grady said. Many doctors point out that a woman can reduce her risk of both osteoporosis and heart disease if she gets exercise, does not smoke, limits her alcohol intake and eats a balanced diet rich in calcium and antioxidant vitamins. ''If your symptoms are mild, it's probably better to just live with them,'' Dr. Grady said. She added that, in her experience, many women who took hormone replacement only prolonged the time they were susceptible to symptoms. Dr. Stefanick said many women might be surprised at how easily they could get by without treatment, based on what she observed among women who had stopped taking the pills. ''As we're now bringing the women off, a lot of the those who said they felt so much better taking the pills are finding out they were actually on placebo,'' she said.
As evidence of the recommendations' unpopularity, he reported that on Tuesday most of about 150 doctors surveyed at a meeting in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, of the American Association of Plastic Surgeons, a group of leading physicians, said they disagreed with the F.D.A.'s directives. Other surgeons said that doctors should follow the directions because much remains unknown about the durability and rate of rupture of silicone implants, which were the subject of intense and controversial class action suits in the 1990s. ''If people blow these tests off, it will be detrimental from a scientific standpoint,'' said Dr. V. Leroy Young, a plastic surgeon in St. Louis. ''Patients will be walking around with failed implants and not know about it.'' He said ignoring the directions could increase patient risk and that he would insist his patients have the tests. The F.D.A., criticized by some health advocates for allowing the silicone implants back onto the market, said it would monitor whether its recommendations were being followed.
Dr. Fogel said the cost issues needed more study. The new study raises questions that will set the agenda for the next round of research, he said.
Dr. Brigid Hogan has never worked with human embryonic stem cells -- her expertise is with mouse cells. But patients with virtually every sort of chronic disease have found her, and they plead for help. ''I even hear from patients whose fathers have lung cancer,'' said Dr. Hogan, a professor at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine. ''They have a whole slew of problems they think can be treated. They think stem cells are going to cure their loved ones of everything.'' If it ever happens, it will not happen soon, scientists say. In fact, although they worked with mouse embryonic stem cells for 20 years and made some progress, researchers have not yet used these cells to cure a single mouse of a disease. Scientists say the theory behind stem cells is correct: the cells, in principle, can become any specialized cell of the body. But between theory and therapy lie a host of research obstacles. Though not often discussed in public forums, the obstacles are so serious that scientists say they foresee years, if not decades, of concerted work on basic science before they can even think of trying to treat a patient.
''The A.M.A. is opposed to any sport where the primary interest is injuring another human being,'' said Dr. Peter W. Carmel, who is the chairman of neurological surgery at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey and a member of the A.M.A.'s board of trustees. ''On the other hand, boxing is legally sanctioned and as long as it exists, there should be a qualified medical professional looking out for the fighter's safety.'' From an ethical standpoint, said Dr. Jeremy Sugarman, the deputy director for medicine of the Phoebe R. Berman Bioethics Institute at Johns Hopkins University, such a position is sound and little could be gained from a doctor's boycott of the sport. ''We've gone well beyond the days of Marcus Welby, when doctors prescribe the daily activities of people's lives,'' Dr. Sugarman said. ''It would be hubris on the part of the medical profession to say that people don't have the right to make their own decisions'' or that a boycott of a sport by medical professionals would dissuade athletes from taking part.
The result, Dr. Myerburg said, was that information about the potential of devices to fail, even in small numbers, had never been communicated to patients. ''The light went on,'' he said, ''and one of the things that we realized is that industry had to be transparent with physicians about these devices so that physicians could be transparent with patients.'' Over months, the Guidant panel interviewed company officials and requested and reviewed documents. In the process, Dr. Myerburg said he realized that engineers at Guidant were deciding medical issues without hearing from doctors. More broadly, the panel found that the defibrillator industry, which has grown rapidly into a $10-billon-a-year business, had not updated its disclosure policies to keep pace with the growth, Dr. Myerburg said. He said Guidant's board enthusiastically embraced his report when he presented it to them at a meeting on Monday. Guidant has said that it will adopt some of the measures proposed by the group, including appointing a company doctor charged with patient safety.
Dr. Winkenwerder said he was optimistic that, this time, there might not be a gulf war syndrome, a mysterious undiagnosable illness and swirling accusations of a government cover-up. ''We think we can prevent it,'' he said. Mr. O'Rourke of the veterans group said he hoped Dr. Winkenwerder was right. ''Right now, I'm saying a lot of prayers,'' Mr. O'Rourke said. Researchers say the syndrome from the last gulf war remains a raw reminder of what is at stake. Congress held hearings, committee after expert committee at the Institute of Medicine investigated, but the illnesses remained mysterious. ''I don't think it's a single syndrome; I don't know what it is,'' said Dr. Nelda P. Wray, the chief research officer for the V.A. ''I have no idea of its etiology.'' Many medical scientists concluded that the symptoms were probably a response to stress -- every war, from the Civil War on, has had a syndrome, with similar symptoms. Only the names have changed, said to Dr. Roswell, the V.A. under secretary, who also published a paper on the syndromes on Sept. 1, 1996, in The Annals of Internal Medicine.
Now that the researchers have done their analysis, Dr. Williamson said, the message, as he sees it, is that perhaps people should take other factors into consideration when deciding whether to worry about the health risks of their weight. Dr. Williamson, who is overweight, said that ''if I had a family history -- a father who had a heart attack at 52 or a brother who developed diabetes -- I would actively lose weight.'' But ''if my father died at 94 and my mother at 97 and I had no family history of chronic disease,'' he said, ''maybe I wouldn't be as concerned.'' Dr. Barry Glassner, a sociology professor at the University of Southern California, had another perspective. ''The take-home message from this study, it seems to me, is unambiguous,'' Dr. Glassner said. ''What is officially deemed overweight these days is actually the optimal weight.'' Correction:  April 27, 2005, Wednesday  A front-page article last Wednesday about a new study on weight and mortality referred imprecisely at one point to the risks of being very thin. The study, in The Journal of the American Medical Association, found that thinness was correlated with a slight increase in mortality, not that it caused such an increase. (As the article noted elsewhere, the study dealt with risks of death -- not causes of death -- associated with various weight levels; it found that people who are slightly overweight have a lower risk than those at other levels.)
Many women with breast cancer undergo unnecessary chemotherapy after having their tumors removed. About three-quarters of women with early-stage cancer would survive anyway without the drugs, but there has been no reliable way to tell which women that would be. So, many undergo the drug treatment, which can have nasty side effects. But a new study shows it may be possible to spare women needless treatments by taking a genetic fingerprint of their tumors. Scientists at Merck &amp; Company and the Netherlands Cancer Institute recently reported that different genetic patterns occurred for tumors that would spread through the body -- thereby requiring chemotherapy -- and those that would not. The findings are preliminary, and scientists say it may be two to five years before the technique can be used in actual patient care. But the study is one of many recent ones pointing to possible benefits of a profound change occurring in how cancers are classified.
Another approach, stroke specialists say, is to direct all patients with stroke symptoms to designated stroke centers. There, stroke patients would be treated by experienced neurologists and admitted to stroke units for additional care. For the first time, in its newly published guidelines, the American Stroke Association recommended the routing of patients to stroke centers. But even with such a system in place, many patients end up at hospitals that are not prepared to treat them, as Dr. Grotta discovered in Houston. He thought he could change stroke care in Houston with the stroke center idea. The first step went well -- the city's ambulance services agreed to take all patients with stroke symptoms to designated stroke centers. Then, Dr. David E. Persse, the city's director of emergency medical services, asked every one of Houston's 25 hospitals if it wanted to be a stroke center. While seven have said yes, others have declined.
THE doctor on the line is very angry. What they don't understand, she says, is how hard she works, how many lives she has saved and how much it costs her to run an office. If they did, she said, her voice shaking with anger, they would never make the choices they do. The subject of her wrath might be managed care companies -- and certainly she hates them -- but actually, it is you. For almost a decade now, doctors' anger toward managed care companies has been well documented. But more recently, it seems, some of that anger has turned toward patients. The patients, not known to be fans of insurance companies themselves, have nonetheless adapted to the companies' dominance by taking on some of their worst qualities, doctors say. The physicians are particularly annoyed with patients who, after  their employer makes a change in a health plan, drop them with seemingly little reservation just because they can no longer participate in that plan.
The F.D.A. itself ''doesn't have to make a big deal out of it,'' says Noah. ''I'm sure they're sympathetic, and they don't have to publicize the names. The more important question is, Can the agency resist efforts by members of the public to find out where the facilities are? Anybody can request that information under F.O.I.A.'' -- the Freedom of Information Act. There is an exemption to the act that covers confidential commercial information, and Danco might argue that revealing the names of manufacturers would harm commercial prospects. ''But that's not the way that exemption has ever been interpreted in the past,'' Noah says. ''And it's unlikely that any of the other exemptions would apply. This is not national security, it's not confidential patient record information and there's no miscellaneous catchall F.O.I.A. exemption that says 'or whatever else would cause too much controversy.''' Moreover, even if the marketing of mifepristone comes off without a hitch, right-to-life legislators might well succeed in restricting access to it. ''I've seen so many corners we were about to go around, that while I'm optimistic, I'm also skeptical,'' says Felicia Stewart, the former director of reproductive health programs at the Kaiser Family Foundation and a longtime advocate of medical abortion. Eric Schaff, at the University of Rochester, who is supervising the current round of clinical trials for mifepristone in which about 4,000 women have participated, says he is convinced that the drug is safe and that administering it is a simple procedure that midwives or nurse-practitioners could do. ''Given that, it's almost ludicrous to imagine the kind of regulations that we may see,'' he says. ''But that doesn't mean we won't see them.''
Still, most experts agree that while drugs for depression are effective, they are still not effective enough, for enough patients: that remains for the future. REFLECTIONS  Correction:  April 27, 2000, Thursday  An article in Science Times on Tuesday about the placebo effect and antidepressant drugs misstated the given name of a psychologist who has done research in this area. He is Dr. Roger Greenberg, not Robert.
In an unlikely pairing, Columbia University has teamed with Hostos Community College -- the South Bronx campus that has long been considered one of City University's weakest -- to try to increase the number of Hispanic and other minority-group  students going into the Foreign Service. Under a program officially announced yesterday at Hostos but that has quietly been in operation since September with 15 students, Hostos students and alumni accepted into the program enroll at Columbia's School of General Studies to complete the third and fourth years of their bachelor's programs and then earn master's degrees at Columbia's School of International and Public Affairs. They are given full tuition scholarships as well as stipends to cover living costs, books and other expenses. The two colleges are only a couple of miles apart physically, but they could not be more different. As one of the most selective universities in the United States, Columbia draws academically sophisticated students with top grades and SAT scores of 1400 and above, though admissions criteria for the general studies program are somewhat lower. Hostos, with 3,500 students, on the Grand Concourse at 149th Street, accepts any student with a high school diploma or the equivalent, many of whom speak little English and have limited academic preparation for college.
Other serious problems besides blood clots and the dislodging of wires arose. For example, there were 131 reports of cases in which patients died, a rate of about 0.3 percent based on the number of procedures. Dr. Reynolds said some of those deaths might not be related to the procedure as much as poor decisions by doctors to implant units in extremely sick patients. In a study recently published in The Journal of the American College of Cardiology, Dr. Reynolds and his colleagues reported a complication rate of 10.8 percent among Medicare recipients who underwent defibrillator implants a few years ago. He said his higher figure might represent different study methodologies; for example, his study tracked complications in the days after a procedure, not just during an implant procedure, as the agency data probably reflects. He also said that the 45,000 procedures reported over the last 16 months to the federal government seemed low, given the number of defibrillator implants performed, adding that it might suggest that doctors are just starting to report data into the system.
His shuttle practice is, in part, a demonstration of the financial muscle being flexed by New Jersey's large, relatively young hospital networks. But it also demonstrates something much more important: New Jersey, for decades what one hospital executive called ''just a highway between the big teaching hospitals in New York and Philadelphia,'' is finally beginning to emerge from the shadows of its more prominent medical neighbors. Having already stemmed the migration of New Jersey residents into New York for most basic and secondary medical services, many of New Jersey's largest hospital groups are now waging an all-out battle on the last remaining front. They are trying to retain patients in the expensive, high-profile specialties for which New York teaching hospitals are world famous, like cancer, heart surgery, organ transplants and the treatment of complex diseases. To do so, New Jersey hospitals have begun to raid -- or occasionally share -- medical talent, not only from New York but from across the country, luring prominent doctors with the rare chance to create well-financed specialty programs from scratch in areas with a huge untapped patient demand.
With the beta-secretase discovery, several scientists said, the field of Alzheimer's research is poised at the same place as AIDS research several years ago, when researchers discovered that the AIDS virus, H.I.V., needed a protease -- an enzyme that cuts protein -- to replicate. Drug companies seized on that discovery, searching for compounds to block the H.I.V. protease. Now protease inhibitors are on the market and are a vital part of AIDS therapy. Beta-secretase is also a protease, and its method of cutting is similar to the method of the H.I.V. protease. ''With beta-secretase, the field of Alzheimer's research has now been granted the same opportunity that AIDS researchers were granted,'' Dr. Tanzi said. ''This is as exciting for Alzheimer's research as the H.I.V. protease enzyme was for AIDS research.'' Dr. Norman Relkin, an Alzheimer's specialist at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University in New York, said there was no doubt about the potential unleashed by the discovery.
He also started a campaign called ''Fashion Targets Breast Cancer'' and was recently introduced to Dr. Freeman. ''I wanted to do more,''  Mr. Lauren said in an interview. ''Dr. Freeman really impressed me. He made me aware of a lot of things I was not aware of in Harlem.'' Mr. Lauren said that recent reports of a mammogram center in the Bronx where the state said hundreds of faulty tests were performed had  furthered his interest. ''That was really scary,'' he said. Part of what attracted Mr. Lauren to the project was that the center will educate patients about their treatment. Mr. Lauren, who battled with a benign brain tumor 12 years ago,  said: ''I knew what it was like not to know which doctor to go to, and I was well known. ''My desire for my legacy is to do everything I can to help other people in this process, and if I can use my profile to do it, I i am going to do it.''
Yet the truth is, none of this may matter quite as much as it seems because in some ways medical abortion is already a reality. Once the F.D.A. issues final approval of mifepristone, and regardless of the protocol stipulated on the label, doctors may make use of the drug more or less as they like. Misoprostol, which is already approved for ulcer therapy, can also be used alone as an abortifacient, though it is more effective in combination with other drugs. Abortions induced by misoprostol in conjunction with a drug called methotrexate, which has been approved since 1954 as a treatment for cancer and other diseases but not as an abortifacient, are already available at no fewer than 75 facilities across the country. (The main strike against methotrexate is that it takes longer and is less predictable than mifepristone; a woman who takes it could miscarry as much as two weeks later.)
But Dr. Omenn noted that only half of those with cardiovascular disease had identifiable risk factors like smoking, high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol levels or obesity. When he thinks about the potential to slash the cardiovascular death rates further he thinks of that other half of the population whose disease is as yet unexplained by medical science.
If science proves some belief of Buddhism wrong, then Buddhism will have to change. In my view, science and Buddhism share a search for the truth and for understanding reality. By learning from science about aspects of reality where its understanding may be more advanced, I believe that Buddhism enriches its own worldview. For many years now, on my own and through the Mind and Life Institute, which I helped found, I have had the opportunity to meet with scientists to discuss their work. World-class scientists have generously coached me in subatomic physics, cosmology, psychology, biology. It is our discussions of neuroscience, however, that have proved particularly important. From these exchanges a vigorous research initiative has emerged, a collaboration between monks and neuroscientists, to explore how meditation might alter brain function. The goal here is not to prove Buddhism right or wrong -- or even to bring people to Buddhism -- but rather to take these methods out of the traditional context, study their potential benefits, and share the findings with anyone who might find them helpful.
But while most expected that cloning would one day be used to create human embryos for harvesting stem cells, the South Korean research elicited amazement from experienced investigators. They were particularly surprised that the researchers had managed to assemble so many unfertilized human eggs, 247 in all. Advanced Cell Technology, the lone American company that has tried to conduct similar research, went through a long and arduous debate with its ethics board before recruiting young women to donate eggs. The board eventually decided that a fair payment for a woman's time and effort would be $4,000. To donate eggs, women have to inject themselves with hormones to stimulate their ovaries, be monitored with ultrasound to see when the eggs are ready to emerge from the ovaries and then allow doctors to extract the eggs with a thin needle. Advanced Cell Technology advertised for donors and paid them the fee, but ended up with just 19 eggs. The company restarted its program in June, Dr. Lanza said, with ''just a few donors.''.
Dr. Spivack said keeping busy is important. ''There is significant benefit to ongoing brain exercise: reading, travel, taking adult education, doing word puzzles,'' he said. ''We also know the positive health effects of good nutrition and exercise, which decrease depression, sleep difficulties and clearly are linked to better brain function.'' , The Millers have gone public to heighten awareness, to help get rid of the fear and stigma, to get help for patients and to be advocates for caregivers. The Alzheimer's Association is one of the places people can go for help. People can call (203) 845-0010 to get the telephone number of their local chapter. The association offers a help line, resource library, free brochures, an Early Stage Patient Support Group and a Caregivers Support Group. There is also the Connecticut State Respite Care program, supported by the State Department of Social Services and operated by the Alzheimer's Association of Connecticut and the Connecticut Area Agencies on Aging. It offers primary caregivers a break -- relief from the stress of what can be a 24-hour, seven-day-a-week job, by helping patients attend a day-care center or an assisted living home for an overnight or weekend stay.
Dr. Lobo said he had been moving toward lower doses of estrogen over the last several years. It is logical to assume that lower doses will pose less risk to breast and heart health, he said, though no studies have proved that. Dr. Lobo also sometimes prescribes lower doses of progestin. Some women, he has found in his own practice, can take it for just 10 to 12 days every two or three months. Estrogen can be given in the form of patches, too, which are typically placed on the abdomen. The patches deliver a steady stream of estrogen or estrogen plus progestin directly to the bloodstream for a few days or a week at a time. Some believe that patches may be safer because the estrogen does not go directly through the liver. ''This is also effective for menopause symptoms,'' said Dr. Deborah Grady, director of the Mount Zion Women's Health Clinical Research Center at the University of California in San Francisco. ''But has anyone ever tested transdermal estrogen to see if it's more safe? Well, no.''
Leonard D. Eron, a psychologist whose pioneering studies of youth violence led him to conclude that television had a significant role in prompting destructive behavior in later life, died on May 3 at his home in Lindenhurst, Ill., near Chicago He was 87. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. In 1960, Dr. Eron (pronounced EE-rahn) began a long-term study of aggression in more than 800 children living in upstate New York. With two other clinical psychologists, Monroe M. Lefkowitz and Leopold O. Walder, and additional researchers, he interviewed 8-year-old children and their parents, evaluating behavior and opening a database to follow the children into adulthood. That work, which continues, became known as the Columbia County Longitudinal Study. Rather than relying on asking the children about their own habits, Dr. Eron and his colleagues questioned their peers and asked them about threats, pushing and other violent tendencies. They also interviewed parents about the television programs most often watched by their children, and rated the programs for their level of violence.
''It's like having insurance and not using it,'' Mrs. Kupps said. ''I've been a well person. These little things are ridiculous. But here I can get them dealt with right away, they don't build up. I've heard stories from my friends, when they get ill, they can't get in to see their doctor for weeks.'' Herbert Glickman, 75, has seen more than a dozen specialists since both of his knees were replaced in 2003, trying to find the cause of his persistent knee pain. He periodically drops off wads of consultation and test reports to add to his bulging file at Dr. Kaminetsky's office, and during long phone calls and appointments the two sort through the results. When a month went by recently without a word from Mr. Glickman, Dr. Kaminetsky called him at home. ''He was calling to find out how I was,'' Mr. Glickman said in the tone of one discussing a miracle. ''I never heard that from any doctor!''
The study's findings have been released in two reports. The first came two years ago when the estrogen-plus-progestin part of the study was prematurely shut down because of data showing an increased risk of heart attacks, strokes and breast cancer among women taking the hormone combination. Over the next 12 months, prescriptions that had once soared -- to 91 million in 2001 -- nose-dived. Sales of hormones overall fell 38 percent while sales of Prempro, the popular mix of estrogen and progestin that was the subject of the study, fell 74 percent, according to a study published this year in The Journal of the American Medical Association. Other research commissioned by drug companies showed that 18.5 million women used hormone therapy in 2002, but that had dropped to 7.6 million by January 2004. Leonard Wood, president of Multi-sponsor Surveys Inc. of Princeton, N.J., a private research firm, said that sales used to be equally divided between menopausal women and older women hoping for anti-aging benefits. ''What you're left with now is women experiencing significant problems with menopause,'' he said.
The nation's health secretary, Alan Milburn, calls it a ''flagship project on molecular epidemiology for the new century.'' But others are considerably less optimistic. Some people worry that they will be exploited and their privacy invaded. Critics are calling for its suspension, saying it has yet to answer crucial questions about access by the courts and pharmaceutical companies and the type of studies will be allowed. ''We would like to see it shelved until safeguards are added,'' said Dr. Helen Wallace, deputy director of GeneWatch U.K., a public interest group concerned about genetic research. The government has rejected GeneWatch's request for an independent review of Biobank's value. Instead, Biobank backers are consulting with ethicists, doctors, scientists, drug companies and the public before issuing final plans. This, they hope, will rally Britain around the plan and prevent the outrage that greeted Iceland's database and doomed another in Tonga. Biobank is to be ready for study in 2014. At the touch of a few computer keys, international researchers should be able to tap into its storehouse to see what genetic variants exist in Britain's population and how Britons' patterns of everyday life affect their risk for disease.
Despite concerted effort, no one has yet succeeded in cloning a monkey, and this failure could mean it will be harder to achieve in humans than it has been in other mammals. But Don Wolf of the Oregon Regional Primate Research Center isn't so sure. ''From a logistical point of view, it's actually more difficult to clone monkeys than humans,'' said Wolf. ''We don't have 750 labs across the country doing assisted reproduction in monkeys. Some of the clinical work we've been struggling with -- how best to grow monkey embryos, how to transfer them directly to the uterus -- are old hat in the I.V.F. world.'' Nearly all of the animal cloning efforts, however, have led to high rates of fetal and neonatal mortality in the resulting offspring. Those who compare cloning to current I.V.F. techniques -- arguing that lots of those fail, too -- neglect to mention that I.V.F. failures consist mostly of unsuccessful implantations, not the sudden deaths of young babies.
And Dr. Peter B. Fodor, a plastic surgeon in Beverly Hills, said a 65-year-old businessman told him last month that his 36-year-old girlfriend refused to marry him unless the doctor could shrink the apparent age difference by 15 years. Joy Padula Dampman, 35, a nurse from Byram, N.J., says her boyfriend and friends were against her having breast implants eight years ago. '' 'Please don't do it,' '' Ms. Dampman said they told her. But she said that years of exercise had not fixed her saggy post-pregnancy bust. Having settled on a new picture of herself -- one that did not include a push-up bra with three pads in it -- she overcame their objections and found a doctor she trusted who was willing to take an $800 down payment. ''Everyone changed their mind instantly'' upon seeing the results, said Ms. Dampman, who paid off the cost of her surgery over several months.
The idea was that an immunization might allow immune system cells to chew up the protein and remove it, clearing plaque from the brain. The immunizations worked beautifully in mice, and a few years ago, the manufacturers of the therapy, Elan Pharmaceuticals and Wyeth, began clinical trials in humans. But when, in 2002, some patients developed severe inflammations of the brain and spinal cord, the trials were abruptly halted. The number of patients affected eventually grew to 18. Elan and Wyeth continue to monitor the more than 300 other patients who received the immunizations, but they have stopped the treatment. One researcher in that study was Dr. David G. Wilkinson, director of the Memory Assessment and Research Center at Moorgreen Hospital in Southampton, England, where 20 patients received immunizations. When a woman died a year later of unrelated causes, Dr. Wilkinson wanted to examine her brain to find out whether the immunization had affected her Alzheimer's. His research team sliced the brain in thin sections and examined them under a microscope.
The truth is that the placebo effect is huge -- anywhere between 35 and 75 percent of patients benefit from taking a dummy pill in studies of new drugs -- so huge, in fact, that it should probably be put to conscious use in clinical practice, even if we do not entirely understand how it works. For centuries, Western medicine consisted of almost nothing but the placebo effect. The patient who got better after a bleeding -- or a dose of fox lung, wood lice, tartar emetic or any of the other charming staples of the 19th-century pharmacopoeia -- got better either in spite of them or because of their symbolic value. Such patients believed in the cure and in the authority of the bewigged gentlemen administering it, and the belief gave them hope and the hope helped make them well. There were exceptions -- remedies, like quinine for malaria, the vaccine for smallpox and morphine for pain relief, that actually worked. But generally speaking, if all the drugs of the day ''could be sunk to the bottom of the sea,'' as Oliver Wendell Holmes observed in 1860, ''it would be all the better for mankind -- and all the worse for the fishes.''
No woman need panic over these findings. The scientific directors of the study stress that the drugs increased a woman's risk of contracting breast cancer -- the finding of most concern -- by less than a tenth of a percent per year, a tiny amount. But if the drugs are taken by millions of women over several years, the risk translates into tens of thousands of cases of breast cancer or cardiovascular disease, a clear public health concern. The federal study has reached no judgment yet on the pluses and minuses of taking estrogen alone, the course of therapy for eight million American women who have had hysterectomies. That portion of the trial will continue. The emerging medical consensus seems to be that long-term use of the estrogen-progestin therapy is questionable, particularly for purposes where alternative drugs are available, such as the prevention of osteoporosis and hip fractures. But short-term use to ease the symptoms of menopause, a purpose not tested in the aborted federal study, may well remain justified. That would return the combination drug to the narrow purpose it originally had -- before the marketing juggernaut and professional word of mouth, buttressed by scientific studies that are now shown to be wrong, propelled it to superstar status.
And as to whether Dr. Arbit is a bad doctor out of control or a victim of a vindictive colleague and overzealous Health Department? ''The truth will come out,'' Mr. Varone said. ''It is like a plane accident. It may take time. But it will come out.''
New York University and the United Auto Workers announced yesterday that they had reached the first union agreement between a private university and its graduate teaching and research assistants. The four-year agreement, which is subject to a ratification vote scheduled for this afternoon, will raise stipends for many graduate students by nearly 40 percent, provide them with health care benefits and pay them extra if their teaching or research work takes more than 20 hours a week. But the agreement also fulfills N.Y.U.'s main goal, giving it continued control over academic decisions like which courses graduate students will teach and how many students will be in their classes. The agreement comes as graduate students at Columbia, Brown and several other major universities are also seeking union representation. The N.Y.U. contract is expected to become a model. ''This was terra incognita,'' said L. Jay Oliva, N.Y.U.'s president. ''No private university had faced this challenge before.''
The New Middle Ages
From New York to Los Angeles, more people are preserving genetic material from their pets, even though pet cloning is still in the testing stages. In fact, it may be many years before dogs or cats or other family pets are cloned with any regularity, if at all. And regardless of whether the science works, ethicists and animal welfare groups are already wary of the moral implications. Still, at least three companies have emerged in the last two years offering people the chance -- at a cost of hundreds or thousands of dollars -- to take that leap of faith and freeze animal tissue now so that some day they may be among the first to clone a pet. Canine sperm banks, meanwhile, once used chiefly to breed show dogs, are freezing more samples from the more ordinary family purebred or mutt. Some pet owners say that cloning or artificial insemination, though perhaps eccentric, is the best, most heartfelt tribute to a beloved family member.
In 2003, Britain plans to undertake the world's most ambitious study of the origins of disease. Looking forward to the day when people will know their genetic makeups and request a precise picture of their risks of developing various diseases, the study organizers plan to assemble a database of medical information about 500,000 Britons, including their DNA. The goal, over the next 10 to 20 years, is to sort out the way that genes and the environment combine to cause common diseases. At least six countries are preparing similar databases, in essence genetic censuses, or have already established them. Iceland, the pioneer, has collected medical data and DNA samples from 80,000 related people to hunt genes that touch off disease. It will also develop a national database from patient records in its health care system. DNA-based diagnostics and drugs could result from the effort. Britain's will be the largest of the databases proposed by governments or their private partners. It has the same goals as Iceland's but with a critical difference: for the first time, it will try to quantify the roles of genes and environmental influences like smoking, alcohol, viruses, pollution, exercise and diet in unrelated people for all common diseases. Studying a huge selection of diverse people could make its discoveries applicable worldwide. Iceland's population, by contrast, is extraordinarily homogeneous.
Ms. Pearson said that in her opinion no woman should be taking estrogen to prevent heart disease outside of a clinical trial asking if it has that effect. Some heart disease researchers said that they already were wary about estrogen because it can elicit blood clots, which can cause heart attacks and strokes. Birth control pills, which contain estrogen, may cause clots, and a recent study found that women who already had heart attacks might not be protected from new ones if they take estrogen. The study, directed by Dr. Stephen Hulley of the University of California at San Francisco, found that in the first year, women taking estrogen actually had more heart attacks and other manifestations of heart disease than those taking a placebo. The effect diminished in subsequent years, and by the fifth year the women taking estrogen did better than those taking the placebo. But the study failed to show that overall, women who had had heart attacks were helped by estrogen.
Patients with multisymptom syndromes often suffer from depression, too, leading some researchers to believe that some of the ailments are psychosomatic. But when patients are told their illness has a psychological origin, it can add to feelings of isolation and frustration. ''I think in general the less competent doctors tell their patients, 'It's all psychological,''' said Dr. Paul Greengard, a Nobel Prize-winning neuroscientist at Rockefeller University, who says he believes that a neurotoxin role in gulf war illness is plausible. ''That's the last escape for doctors who can't find an answer.'' Financial issues can complicate the picture. With breast implants, lawyers for women who said they had been harmed sought damages from manufacturers. With gulf war illnesses, as with Agent Orange, a finding that a sickness is ''service-connected'' can open the door to benefit payments. Faced with such thorny medical controversies, the government's response is often to appoint a committee. But the committee's makeup may influence its conclusions.
A survey published this month in the journal Fertility and Sterility, ''What Is Happening to the Price of Eggs?'' found that the national average compensation for donors was $4,217. At least one center told the authors of the paper that it paid $15,000. Many centers did not respond. Though laws prohibit the sale of transplant organs, sperm donors have always received small payments, and prospective parents in the United States are allowed to compensate women for their far greater expenditure of time and energy. (Many countries, including Canada and Britain, do prohibit payments to egg donors.) The American Society for Reproductive Medicine considers compensation of $5,000 or more to ''require justification'' and sums exceeding $10,000 ''beyond what is appropriate.'' Meanwhile, advertisements recruiting students from elite universities to donate promise tens of thousands of dollars, and donor agencies have sprung up, appealing to would-be parents with online videos and photo galleries of donors. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 5,767 babies were born in 2003 from donor eggs; the number of actual egg donations is probably much higher, however, because the success rate is fairly low.
''The similarities between CLL and lymphomas, which we have long known to be associated with exposure to the types of chemicals used in Agent Orange and other defoliants, began to raise questions about whether CLL should be considered separately from other forms of leukemia,'' said Irva Hertz-Picciotto, a professor of epidemiology who was chairwoman of the panel. ''The data are sufficient to support a link between herbicide exposure and this type of cancer.'' Mr. Principi said the incidents of the cancer among veterans were relatively few, though he estimated that his department would hear from as many as 1,000 new patients a year. Because of the findings, veterans will not have to prove that their illnesses stemmed from Agent Orange exposure. Evidence of military service and a physician's diagnosis will be sufficient, the secretary said. Depending on the severity of the disability, veterans will be entitled to up to $2,300 a month, officials said.
Then a group of maverick researchers proved that most cases were caused by a bacterium, Helicobacter pylori. Today, stress is believed to play a minor role or none at all. ''The medical community was very resistant to accepting a new idea,'' Dr. Golomb said, adding that, with gulf war illnesses, too, ''it's challenging, because there have been very strongly staked out positions.''
This animal-human cohabitation seems to account for the great influenza pandemics of the 20th century. While it is too early to tell definitively, many virologists think human-animal virus mixing may be at the root of the coronavirus that causes SARS. Better surveillance is essential. Early warning systems for respiratory viruses will enable preventive measures, like quarantine and vaccination programs, to be put into place more quickly. Yet, while surveillance can hinder the spread of respiratory viruses, it doesn't change the underlying human-animal cohabitation that is the source of the problem. Animal husbandry and slaughtering practices also need to change. In China, pigs and other domestic mammals are often raised in the same pens or near chickens and wild birds. Separating these animals is important. In addition, animals are frequently slaughtered to order in restaurants, and families slaughter birds for meals at home. Restricting slaughtering to processing plants that segregate pigs from birds, with inspections to enforce hygienic standards, is key. Slaughtering in restaurants and the keeping of birds in private homes should be prohibited.
Steve Spence arrived in Tokyo on an August day in 1991 to run a world championship marathon. He knew right away that it would be bad. The city was hot and humid and the air so polluted, Mr. Spence said, that he felt as though he could not take a full breath. His adviser, David Martin, an exercise physiologist, agreed. They were, Dr. Martin said, ''the most challenging conditions that have ever been reported for world championships.'' But Mr. Spence, who is now the head cross-country coach at Shippensburg University in Pennsylvania, had trained long and hard for the race, the International Association of Athletics Federations' World Championships. He had run so much that a five-minute-per-mile pace ''felt like a jog,'' he said. But his training had been so exhausting that he had to sleep 10 hours a night and nap 2 hours every afternoon. And his schedule, running 140 miles a week, was so onerous that he needed 5,000 calories a day to sustain himself.
The bottom line for many people is fear: fear of bad news, fear of an uncomfortable test, fear of discussing something intimate. And the reason for this dread of the doctor, experts say, has much to do with the breakdown of doctor-patient relationships. Few people nowadays have an old-fashioned family practitioner, the physician who is also friend and confidant. The American College of Physicians-American Society of Internal Medicine recommends annual medical visits for everyone beginning at the age of 40. Yearly visit for younger adults is probably not cost-effective, but checkups are helpful, said Dr. William J. Hall, president-elect of the physicians' association. ''It behooves everyone,'' said Dr. Hall, who is also chief of the general medicine unit at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester, ''to have a database of health information assembled. It's more like insurance than going because a doctor is likely to find something.'' The biggest danger, he said, is to go with a new complaint to a new doctor, who may not put the symptoms in the right context.
''It's more than just the algorithms about the puzzles,'' said Bertram Nickolay, the head of the security and testing technologies department. Indeed, the archive is a massive grab bag of randomly torn documents, many with handwritten and typewritten text on the same page. Combining all these technologies in a project of this scope ''is on the borders of what's possible,'' Mr. Nickolay said. His system's accuracy rate is about 80 percent. ''It will take time for the algorithms to be optimized,'' Mr. Nickolay said, noting that handwriting analysis began with accuracy levels of around 50 percent, and are now at 90 percent and above. Some of the companies competing for the job concentrated on the shape, color and perforations of the shreds, while other contenders opted for semantically driven systems, which looked for keywords and likely text matches. The Fraunhofer plan is to combine its smart scanning software with the know-how of the Zirndorf archivists, who have amassed years of experience working with these tiny pieces of history. After all the shreds have been scanned (at 200 dots per inch), the interactive software will suggest possible matches, which an operator can accept or reject.
Given such proof of the power of genetics, Kolata asks, why do we continue to insist that fat people can become thin people if they only put their minds to it? She's surely right to push back against bafflement and intolerance, and her argument that we've tilted too far toward blaming fat people's bad habits for their weight is convincing. But Kolata goes so far in arguing for biological predestination that she sometimes seems to completely dismiss the other part of the fat equation -- what we eat. In all likelihood, the obesity rate has doubled in the United States since 1980 for all the familiar reasons: fattening food has never been so cheap, convenient and cunningly marketed. ''The genes that make people fat need an environment in which food is cheap and plentiful,'' she writes. It's in a world of giant muffins and bowls of office candy that Americans need wider movie seats and larger coffins.
The day-to-day frustrations erode the faith of many doctors and nurses in what they are doing and give them another reason to leave, on top of the economic hardships. The medical professionals who stay say they understand the thinking of the ones who don't. ''It's very personal, and you can't interfere with that kind of decision,'' said Dr. Matshe, the obstetrician at Mpilo Central Hospital. After all, the idea of leaving has occurred to almost all of them. ''I suppose all of us have at some point or another thought about, but somebody has to hang around here,'' said Dr. Mahlangu, Mpilo's medical superintendent. ''I was born here. I was brought up here. This is home.''
Recently, researchers have come to understand that it is no mere coincidence that diabetes and cardiovascular disease are closely linked. Type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease share deep molecular roots in the regulation of sugar and fat throughout the body, said Dr. Mitch Lazar, director of the Institute for Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism at the University of Pennsylvania. That relationship makes intuitive sense, because diabetes involves the way food is metabolized, a process that involves cholesterols, which can cause blood vessels to clog. Figuring out the actual mechanism, though, has required studying a small family of chemical receptors in the body called peroxisome proliferators-activated receptors, and known as P.P.A.R.'s. The receptors belong to an extended family of steroid hormone receptors that sit on a cell's nucleus and turn on genes that then initiate numerous changes inside and outside the cell. Dr. Ronald M. Evans, a Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator at the Salk Institute in San Diego, calls the receptors ''master switches'' that regulate fat cells, lipids, glucose and, indirectly, insulin.
On Friday, the PET scan manufacturers will have a conference call with Medicare officials to plan how to proceed, Dr. Rollins said. On Sept. 28, Medicare issued a proposal to pay for implantable defibrillators for hundreds of thousands of patients with severe heart disease, but who have not had a heart attack, but only if they are in a national registry to follow the outcomes. The questions the agency wants answered, Dr. Tunis said, include: Who is still alive in 6 to 12 months? Whose defibrillator actually went off, shocking their heart back to life? Does it matter whether a cardiologist or general surgeon put the device in the patient's body? Does it matter which brand of defibrillator a patient receives? But the defibrillator makers are not enthusiastic about starting a registry. ''The first option is that C.M.S. should pay for it,'' said Peter Gove, a spokesman for St. Jude Medical, a defibrillator maker, referring to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
Part of the reason for the interest in the drugs is that aging baby boomers are increasingly encountering the problem of erectile dysfunction, said David F. Saks, who is the chief investment officer for Gruntal &amp; Company's MedScience Fund. ''There's a market out there,'' he said, adding that Viagra had not even begun to saturate it. ''The second, the third, the fourth drug will also have a market,'' Mr. Saks said. Pfizer also helped pave the way for the second, third and fourth drugs by a deliberate marketing campaign to make the erection problem a legitimate medical concern. ''Part of that is giving them language that is not emotionally charged,'' Mr. Brinkley said. Pfizer insisted on calling the problem ''erectile dysfunction,'' and not ''impotence.'' '' 'Erectile dysfunction' helps people feel more comfortable emotionally with it,'' Mr. Brinkley said. ''It medicalizes the problem. It's not their fault anymore.'' The discoverer of Uprima (pronounced you-PREE-muh) knows the problem of social acceptance all too well. In a way, this researcher, Dr. Ragab El-Rashidy, the founder of a 25-person company, Pentech, in Buffalo Grove, Ill., was ahead of his time. In 1995, he believed he had a drug for erectile dysfunction. But when he asked dozens of companies to help him develop it, he said, he was quickly shown the door.
Some doctors leave it to the patients, who, experts agree, know what risks they want to take. ''Patients have an inner sense of what they want to do,'' said Dr. Lori J. Pierce, an associate professor of radiation oncology at the University of Michigan, who was the lead researcher for the study that failed to draw enough participants. ''Patients need to have an informed discussion with the doctors to look at the pros and cons to help them make that decision.'' That wasn't happening three or four years ago.
A PRIMARY care doctor I've known since we were residents 30 years ago recently described for me his typical day as foisted on him by current economic realities. He rises at 4 a.m. to make a dent in his avalanche of paperwork before dashing off to make rounds at the hospital and arrive at his office before 8. For the next 10 to 11 hours, he races through a series of patients so long, he cannot talk to any one of them as much as he believes he should, and he constantly worries he'll miss something. Worst of all, he admitted, he no longer enjoys practicing medicine. Ten-plus years ago primary care was lauded as the potential rescuer of a health care system in chaos. Primary care doctors, it was hoped, would fix what had become an expensive, fragmented specialty system geared toward treating emergencies and episodes of acute illness. Thanks to new technologies and treatments, medicine had become a team effort, but the teams needed captains who would keep patients' overall health in mind, and that role was to be filled by the primary care doctors: internists, family physicians, general practitioners and pediatricians. We would all know our doctors, and they would know us.
Typically, the researchers said, the cost of developing new drugs is spread over 10 to 15 years. On the average, Dr. DiMasi said, 12 years elapse from the time a new chemical compound is synthesized until it is approved by the government for marketing in the United States. The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade association for drug makers, welcomed the study, saying it confirmed their view that ''drug development is staggeringly expensive.'' Alan F. Holmer, president of the organization, said the study underscored the need for policies, like patent protection, that encourage investment in drug research and development. Some consumer advocates criticized the study as biased and said it overstated the costs of drug development. ''This is just a thinly disguised advertisement for the pharmaceutical industry to justify continued price-gouging,'' said Dr. Sidney M. Wolfe, director of the Health Research Group, a consumer organization founded by Ralph Nader.
The seemingly contradictory properties of the COX-2 drugs are just one of the medical and ethical quandaries raised this week in the wake of two new studies finding that lowering CRP with statins, the cholesterol-lowering drug that also can drive CRP levels down, may be as beneficial as lowering cholesterol in patients with severe heart disease. Should doctors start testing for CRP just as they now test for cholesterol? If so, then what? Should patients with high CRP levels get them down by any means possible? Should doctors encourage them to do whatever it takes? Not necessarily, some say. As Dr. Daniel Rader, a heart disease researcher at the University of Pennsylvania, said, ''We cannot assume that just because something lowers CRP it's a good thing.'' (Dr. Rader consults for and receives honorariums from the drug companies that make statins.) It is known that CRP itself is a risk factor for heart disease: the higher the CRP level, the greater the risk of heart attacks. This effect is independent of other risk factors, like cholesterol and blood pressure. You almost cannot get CRP too low, said Dr. Paul Ridker of Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, the author of one of the studies, published yesterday in The New England Journal of Medicine. Dr. Ridker found that the 10 percent to 15 percent of the population with very low CRP levels, less than 0.5, has a risk that is ''essentially zero.'' Even if their cholesterol levels are high, he said, they seem not to have heart attacks. (Dr. Ridker is an inventor of a test for CRP and profits from its use.)
Credit card fraud has also pushed Internet businesses to look into this type of software. Internet executives say geographic focusing software is being used to identify users from regions with high instances of credit card theft. If credit cards come in from a region that has been deemed a high risk for fraud, the Web site could ask for further information to determine whether the card number is legitimate. Likewise, if the same card number is used within a few minutes by two users in different time zones, the Web site could apply greater scrutiny to the transaction. Companies that must respect copyrights are also adopting this technology. For example, Vivendi Universal's Universal Music Group, one of the world's largest music publishers, has been using technology to detect a user's location since the middle of last year. Because distribution rights vary from nation to nation, depending on the deal a music publisher strikes with an artist, Universal was unable to offer digital downloads of its music without a mechanism to block downloads to people in certain countries.
The Women's Health Initiative was not the first large trial to report negative results about hormones and heart disease. The Heart and Estrogen-Progestin Replacement Study or HERS, had looked at whether combination hormone therapy would prevent a second heart attack and found that the risk actually increased in the first year of use. Smaller clinical trials are under way to explore the ''window of opportunity'' theory, but they lack the health initiative's power of numbers, and they will track markers for heart disease, not heart attacks. ''What we're trying to do is reconcile why there is such a disconnect, or paradox, between the observational trials and the randomized controlled trials,''said Dr. Isaac Schiff, chief of obstetrics and gynecology at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston and chairman of a report on hormone therapy for the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Simplified, the window of opportunity argument goes something like this: Most women do not develop heart disease until after menopause, because estrogen protects their blood vessels, keeping them smooth and free of plaque. But if women go without estrogen for a long period after menopause, they will develop atherosclerosis. At that point, estrogen may be harmful, because it increases the tendency to clot, raising the risk of a heart attack.
When Dr. Jeffrey Flier decided to specialize in diabetes, he knew that most of his patients would be fat. Obesity is a leading cause of the disease. And weight loss is the best way for most fat diabetic patients to get their disease under control. But after years of seeing patient after patient, fat and frantic to lose weight, Dr. Flier retreated to the lab. Although he still treats people with diabetes, he no longer treats obesity. He has rebuffed all suggestions by his hospital, Beth Israel Medical Center in Boston, that he run a weight loss clinic. And he is telling anyone who asks that the truth about weight loss is that the medical and behavioral treatments that doctors can offer are usually ineffective. People often lose weight, but they almost always gain it back. ''It's not the kind of therapy you can get very excited about,'' Dr. Flier said.
Surely, everyone involved in drafting the various dietary guidelines wanted Americans simply to eat less junk food, however you define it, and eat more the way they do in Berkeley, Calif. But we didn't go along. Instead we ate more starches and refined carbohydrates, because calorie for calorie, these are the cheapest nutrients for the food industry to produce, and they can be sold at the highest profit. It's also what we like to eat. Rare is the person under the age of 50 who doesn't prefer a cookie or heavily sweetened yogurt to a head of broccoli. ''All reformers would do well to be conscious of the law of unintended consequences,'' says Alan Stone, who was staff director for McGovern's Senate committee. Stone told me he had an inkling about how the food industry would respond to the new dietary goals back when the hearings were first held. An economist pulled him aside, he said, and gave him a lesson on market disincentives to healthy eating: ''He said if you create a new market with a brand-new manufactured food, give it a brand-new fancy name, put a big advertising budget behind it, you can have a market all to yourself and force your competitors to catch up. You can't do that with fruits and vegetables. It's harder to differentiate an apple from an apple.''
When the federal government assesses the long-term financial problems of Social Security, it assumes that increases in life expectancy will be slow and measured. But many population experts say they believe that Americans' life expectancy will increase rapidly in the 21st century, making the program's financial problems even worse. President Bush and Congress are preparing for a debate over the future of Social Security, whose solvency depends not only on factors including productivity, inflation and birth rates but also on how long beneficiaries will be living. Life expectancy at birth increased by 30 years in the last century, and many independent demographers, citing the promise of biomedical research and the experience of some other industrialized countries, predict significant increases in this century. The Social Security Administration foresees a much slower rise. ''Life expectancy will make a very big difference in the fiscal viability of Social Security, but the agency's projections of longevity appear too conservative,'' said Prof. Samuel H. Preston of the University of Pennsylvania, one of the nation's leading demographers.
Though the clinic has developed an equilibrium with its lone demonstrator, Ms. Osborne is wary of any opposition to abortion rights. In 1994, when she was executive director of Preterm Health Services in Brookline, Mass., an abortion opponent named John C. Salvi III came into the clinic and started shooting, killing the receptionist. The Technology As laws become more restrictive, technology has gone the other way, making abortions possible both earlier and later in pregnancy, and by pill or surgery. Doctors can perform abortions as early as eight days after conception, and 59 percent of women having abortions do so within eight weeks, according to 2001 data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Fewer than 1 percent have abortions after 20 weeks. A late-term procedure called intact dilation and extraction, sometimes known as partial-birth abortion, accounted for less than two-tenths of 1 percent of all abortions in 2000, according to the Guttmacher Institute. Fewer than one in 50 providers performed those.
AUSTIN HILL has become skilled at speaking for those hard-core computer programmers who spend their time making sure that no one -- not hackers nor marketers nor government investigators -- can pull aside the curtains cloaking their electronic domains. As president of Zero-Knowledge Systems, which builds privacy software, Mr. Hill has spoken at conferences around North America, espousing the credo that a person's online movements are no one else's business. So when he stood up last month at the Computers, Freedom and Privacy Conference in Toronto to kick off a low-budget ritual known as the Big Brother Awards, he was relaxed and smiling. Standing on a makeshift platform in a crowded lobby, he joked that his company had spent a million dollars to sponsor the event. Then he covered his mouth with an expression of mock horror and said, ''I hope our V.C.'s didn't hear that.'' It was a telling moment. The mention of the million dollars was obviously a joke, but the reference to venture capitalists was not. Zero-Knowledge does indeed have a band of V.C.'s helping to bankroll its operations; it has received as much as $37 million in financing since October.
Whether the cause of the wiring problem is genes or environment is the matter of some debate. ''This is the million dollar question,'' said Dr. Richard Mayeux, a professor of psychiatry and public health and director of the Taub Institute on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain at Columbia. ''There are suggestions from all over that mental function is a heritable trait, albeit a complex one.'' For example, Dr. Mayeux said, studies that followed twins found that even in their 80's, identical pairs were often more similar with respect to memory than fraternal twins. ''This doesn't mean that we will identify one particular gene that controls preservation of memory, but it really points to memory being a heritable trait,'' Dr. Mayeux said. While allowing that heredity may play a role in memory loss, other researchers have focused on a host of environmental factors, including stress, sex hormones and blood flow to the brain.
Doctors and hospitals are not the only players with a financial stake in fusion operations. Critics blame the companies that make the hardware for promoting more complex fusions without evidence that they are significantly more effective. Some sort of hardware is used in almost 90 percent of lower-back fusions, Mr. Mendenhall said, compared with fewer than half in 1996. Between Medicare and private insurers, the national bill for the hardware alone has soared to $2.5 billion a year, he said. ''A lot of technological innovation serves shareholders more than patients,'' he said. The hardware makers acknowledge giving surgeons millions of dollars in consulting fees, royalty payments and research grants, but say the money promotes technical and medical advances that improve back care. ''We can't innovate to help patients without these physician relationships,'' said Bob Hanvik, a spokesman for Medtronic, the Minneapolis company that is the biggest maker of spinal hardware. ''Most physicians don't want to give away their time.''
New York City is facing an epidemic of diabetes, health officials said yesterday, pointing to new figures showing that nearly 8 percent of adults in the city have the disease, double the rate of eight years ago. This rate, which mirrors national trends, is particularly high in the city's poorest neighborhoods, where obesity rates are also extremely high, according to data collected by the city's Department of Health in a study last spring of 10,000 New Yorkers that the department says is the largest health survey ever conducted in the city. For example, the study found that in East New York, Brooklyn, more than 31 percent of the residents are obese, and 13 percent have diabetes. In the South Bronx, 27.3 percent are obese and 13.9 percent have diabetes. The disease was least prevalent on the Upper East Side, where less than 2 percent of residents are diabetic, and only 7 percent are considered obese.
The promotional blitz over the years has made hormone replacement therapy sound like a virtual fountain of youth. As Melody Petersen and Gina Kolata reported in yesterday's Times, the drug company Wyeth financed a best-selling 1966 book, ''Feminine Forever,'' that kicked off the promotional boom for estrogen as a hormone that could keep women young, healthy and attractive, according to the author's son. More recently, Lauren Hutton, the supermodel featured in Wyeth ads, told Parade magazine that estrogen is ''good for your moods, it's good for your skin,'' making it sound like a beauty treatment and anti-aging elixir. One bright spot at this time when desperate drug companies are hyping their products beyond reason -- and when the corporate and financial worlds seem enmeshed in shady dealings -- was the impeccable integrity of this well-designed scientific study. The findings could not have been pleasing to Wyeth, the manufacturer of the drug combination being tested, whose shares plunged sharply on the news. But the National Institutes of Health and the researchers themselves had no qualms about terminating the study and announcing the results for the benefit of patients and their doctors. If only the business world could be so forthcoming.
In the wake of that announcement, the medical community reached a consensus that estrogen and progestin supplements should not be prescribed for more than a few years. The new findings help to fill out the factors in deciding to use hormone therapy even in the short term. They are also consistent with the results of another large study, reported in 1998, which found an increased risk of heart attack soon after the start of hormone therapy. One possible explanation is that hormone therapy appears to have an immediate effect on blood clotting, Dr. Manson said. ''If a woman has a narrowed blood vessel, the sudden increase in clotting can lead to a heart attack very rapidly,'' she said. Dr. Manson noted that women who take hormones to treat the hot flashes and night sweats that sometimes accompany menopause tend to be in their early 50's, so that their risk of heart attack is, on average, less than one half of one percent. Even if doubled, that risk remains less than one percent.
BEYOND NUTRITIONISM To medicalize the diet problem is of course perfectly consistent with nutritionism. So what might a more ecological or cultural approach to the problem recommend? How might we plot our escape from nutritionism and, in turn, from the deleterious effects of the modern diet? In theory nothing could be simpler -- stop thinking and eating that way -- but this is somewhat harder to do in practice, given the food environment we now inhabit and the loss of sharp cultural tools to guide us through it. Still, I do think escape is possible, to which end I can now revisit -- and elaborate on, but just a little -- the simple principles of healthy eating I proposed at the beginning of this essay, several thousand words ago. So try these few (flagrantly unscientific) rules of thumb, collected in the course of my nutritional odyssey, and see if they don't at least point us in the right direction.
The story of this patient is one we as doctors encounter almost every day: a heart attack victim taken by ambulance to a hospital that isn't equipped to perform angioplasty. If the man had been taken to one of the six Manhattan hospitals that have cardiac catheterization, where angioplasty is performed, open 24 hours a day, the damage to his heart could have been averted, adding years to his life. But it would have required a degree of coordination and oversight that many ambulance fleets in New York and across the country lack. Several recently published studies have sparked a vigorous debate over how acute heart attacks, the quintessential medical emergency, should be treated. With a million cases in the United States every year, acute heart attacks are a major public health problem, and how this debate is settled is bound to have important public health implications. When heart muscle is deprived of blood, it goes through what has been termed the ''ischemic cascade.'' Initially the muscle goes into a sort of hibernating state, stunned by a lack of oxygen. Cells swell as sodium and calcium flow in through suddenly porous membranes, creating havoc with the cellular machinery.
Dr. Mark H. Ebell  Family physician, editor of The Journal of Family Practice, Athens, Ga. I don't think teaching breast self-examination is a good use of the limited time I have with my patients. It's one of the those things where it seems like a good idea, it makes perfect sense, but it doesn't work. I do continue to recommend mammography, starting at age 40. But if we have a patient who's at very low risk for breast cancer, based on her family history and health history, then I think it's reasonable to wait until age 50. The biggest challenge is getting women in their 60's and early 70's to be screened, because that's where there's the clearest evidence of benefit, and you tend to have lower rates of screening. Prostate cancer is different. It's often an indolent, slow-growing cancer, and most men who have it die with it and not of it.
The study ''caused an uproar,'' Dr. Waters said. ''We were saying that atherosclerosis is a systemic disease. It occurs throughout all the coronary arteries. If you fix one segment, a year later it will be another segment that pops and gives you a heart attack, so systemic therapy, with statins or antiplatelet drugs, has the potential to do a lot more.'' But, he added, ''there is a tradition in cardiology that doesn't want to hear that.'' Even more disquieting, Dr. Topol said, is that stenting can actually cause minor heart attacks in about 4 percent of patients. That can add up to a lot of people suffering heart damage from a procedure meant to prevent it. ''It has not been a welcome thought,'' Dr. Topol said. Stent makers say they do not mislead doctors or patients. Their new stents, coated with drugs to prevent scar tissue from growing back in the immediate area, are increasingly popular among cardiologists, and sales are exploding. But there is not yet any evidence that they change the course of heart disease.
The cat cloning project failed at first, when the researchers used cells from a male cat, but succeeded on the second try with Rainbow's cells. The researchers transferred 87 embryo clones to surrogate mothers and got one live kitten, cc. She was born on Dec. 22 and is healthy and normal, the researchers report. The success rate was comparable to cloning success rates for other species. But the company's dog cloning project, which began several years ago and is directed by the same researchers, still has not succeeded, Dr. Kraemer said. One reason is that scientists have much more experience working with cat eggs and embryos, Dr. Kraemer said. Dogs, he said, are much more difficult to clone. Unlike cats, which ovulate when they are mated, making it easy to time the production of eggs, dogs are unpredictable. They ''ovulate whenever they get around to it,'' Dr. Kraemer said. Unlike other mammals that excrete mature eggs, dogs excrete immature eggs from their ovaries, making it hard to obtain the mature eggs needed to start the cloning process.
A big reason Americans are fatter and healthier, Dr. Williamson believes, may be the steep decline in cigarette smoking. If he is right, the rise in obesity is a classic case of unintended consequences -- one of a long list of medical and public health interventions whose full effects could not be foreseen. For example, Americans once died in great numbers in infancy, or childhood, and women died in childbirth from infectious diseases. Now they don't -- a triumph of public health. But as a consequence, the population is growing ever older, which is in turn creating a host of profound new public health challenges. ''We're just now trying to deal with the medical consequences'' of an aging nation, Dr. Williamson said. The connection between smoking and obesity is not yet proven, but the statistical correlations are there. From 1980 to 2000 -- as body weight was rising -- smoking rates fell by 27 percent in the nation as a whole and by 38 percent among middle-aged Americans. (Today, smoking rates have leveled off, Dr. Williamson notes, and there are signs that the obesity rates are leveling off, too.)
PUBLIC LIVES
Mr. Carmichael, a married father of three, argues that lifestyle changes stick only when there's an emotional payoff -- be it more energy with the kids, more spontaneous sex or fewer outbursts at work. ''If you're strong in all those five essentials, you can continue to perform in life, whether in athletics, in your career or in relationships,'' he said. The timing of his first book for a general audience represents his push to another level in dispensing coaching advice. ''Lance was going to retire,'' said Kevin Dessart, the marketing director for Carmichael Training. ''We needed to establish the company on its own. Everything for the first few years was Lance, Lance, Lance.'' Now everything is Carmichael, Carmichael, Carmichael. Mr. Armstrong's endorsements gave Mr. Carmichael bankable credentials. After their first Tour de France victory in 1999, he founded Carmichael Training with four employees in Colorado Springs. It now has a staff of more than 100 on site, satellite coaches and 3,000 clients.
He said 4,000 doctors and nurses use the Columbia system, including many who log on at home. The Cornell Center, Columbia's East Side partner, has adopted features of the Brigham and Women's system, including advice that a doctor may accept or ignore, Dr. Hayes said. Most doctors and nurses also type orders into computers at hospitals of the Mount Sinai and New York University Medical Center. The N.Y.U. system issues an updated printout of patient data hourly, including warnings about allergies and drug interactions. A coalition of big employers -- including General Motors, General Electric and the Pacific Business Group on Health -- plans to press hospitals and health plans to show measurable advances. The business leaders plan to meet next month with 11 big health insurance companies to discuss ways to avoid errors by computerizing medical orders and other improvements.  ''Patient safety has finally come out of the closet,'' Dr. Kizer of the Quality Forum said.
Among children born from 1998 to 2000, about one-third fell into the high-exposure group. But of those born in 2001 and 2002, just one out of 77 was in that group, Dr. Whyatt said. As pesticide levels fell, she said, infant size rose. What made that change all the more remarkable, she said, is that while exposure to the pesticides dropped significantly in 2000, 2001 and 2002, it did not suddenly fall to zero. The E.P.A. began phasing out sales for residential use in 2000 for chlorpyrifos and 2001 for diazinon, and many stores voluntarily took the products off their shelves before they were required to do so. But the total bans on indoor use did not take effect until the end of 2001 for chlorpyrifos and the end of 2002 for diazinon. Surveys by Columbia found that many stores in minority areas were still selling products with those pesticides as late as mid-2003.
That disappointment comes at a time when some experts have been questioning the value of screening tests for other cancers, including breast and ovarian cancers in women, prostate cancer in men, and lung cancer in both sexes. A key issue is whether the tests are finding a lot of tumors that would never become dangerous but cannot be distinguished from tumors that could become deadly, thereby causing many patients to undergo the risk of surgery, radiation or chemotherapy for no good reason. Each test has adherents who believe that early detection does far more good than harm, and critics who are not so sure. This debate underscores the importance of subjecting screening tests to rigorous trials to find whether they help reduce cancer mortality. Many tests have been adopted mostly on faith. But even clinical trials cannot resolve all questions. Mammography has been endorsed by the federal government on the basis of seven large clinical trials, but scientists argue over whether flaws in those studies invalidate the results or merely weaken them.
Rather than go where many authors have gone before, Kolata questions whether the current alarm over obesity is overblown -- and whether the culture of dieting isn't itself harmful. The fat wars are less a legitimate public health campaign than a ''moral panic,'' she suggests. In fact, she argues, some recent epidemiological studies show lower death rates for somewhat overweight people than for ''so-called normal-weight people'' or very thin ones. The data are certainly intriguing. But living longer doesn't mean that fat people are in good health along the way. In fact, they suffer from higher rates of diabetes, stroke, certain cancers and heart trouble. Kolata skirts this, because her argument is that thinness in and of itself is not a goal many people can achieve -- or even an important one. She also quotes one expert who claims that ''national data'' do not show that Americans are in fact more sedentary than in the past. It's a surprising assertion that begs for development.
''We are certainly going to be looking into the compliance with the M.R.I.'s by doctors and patients,'' said Donna-Bea Tillman, director of the F.D.A.'s office of device evaluation. Ms. Tillman said the agency had determined that silicone-gel-filled implants are safe and effective for women 22 or older who receive the appropriate follow-up care. She added that it was not clear how using the devices without following the recommendations may affect safety and efficacy. The two largest plastic surgery associations said they strongly advise members to adhere to the guidelines. Mentor Corporation, which makes silicone implants, said it supports the product labeling. The other implant manufacturer, Allergan Inc., said that it encourages physicians and patients to follow the recommendations and that it offers training for physicians to understand them. About 330,000 cosmetic breast augmentations were performed in the United States in 2006, up from about 291,000 in 2005, according to statistics from a survey of doctors conducted by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. These numbers do not include patients who had implants for reconstruction after breast cancer.
Apparently anticipating such an outcome, Dr. Hwang had claimed that his authentic stem cells were stolen from his lab and were replaced with MizMedi samples. MizMedi scientists accused Dr. Hwang of a cover-up. The panel is still investigating his 2004 study, and the authenticity of an Afghan hound Snuppy, which was unveiled by Dr. Hwang in August as the world's first cloned dog. Verifying the 2004 paper holds the key to the question of whether the fallen South Korean researcher had ever cloned a human embryo. Dr. Roe said the panel would announce its final findings in mid-January.
In 2003, Britain plans to undertake the world's most ambitious study of the origins of disease. Looking forward to the day when people will know their genetic makeups and request a precise picture of their risks of developing various diseases, the study organizers plan to assemble a database of medical information about 500,000 Britons, including their DNA. The goal, over the next 10 to 20 years, is to sort out the way that genes and the environment combine to cause common diseases. At least six countries are preparing similar databases, in essence genetic censuses, or have already established them. Iceland, the pioneer, has collected medical data and DNA samples from 80,000 related people to hunt genes that touch off disease. It will also develop a national database from patient records in its health care system. DNA-based diagnostics and drugs could result from the effort. Britain's will be the largest of the databases proposed by governments or their private partners. It has the same goals as Iceland's but with a critical difference: for the first time, it will try to quantify the roles of genes and environmental influences like smoking, alcohol, viruses, pollution, exercise and diet in unrelated people for all common diseases. Studying a huge selection of diverse people could make its discoveries applicable worldwide. Iceland's population, by contrast, is extraordinarily homogeneous.
When a large study of hormone replacement therapy was abruptly halted last summer because of risks from the drugs, scientists immediately began a reassessment of all other studies that involved the drugs. Now, one additional study has been halted, and participants in studies that are continuing have had to give their consent again. Researchers say the ripples from the hormone replacement study will spread for years, making them think carefully about when, if ever, to subject healthy women to estrogen therapy in scientific studies. ''The Women's Health Initiative has given us an understanding of the risks,'' said Dr. Richard Hodes, the director of the National Institute on Aging, referring to the first study that was stopped. ''We have to ask whether despite that knowledge, there is reason to continue a study.'' Often, Dr. Joan McGowan, an administrator at the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, said, ''it's a very tough call.''
''I think it's foolish to disclose what I'm scanning for, whether I'm scanning and whether I'm detecting anything,'' Dr. Johnson said. ''To give that away tips one's hands.'' Steganography, Greek for ''hidden writing,'' is one of the most ancient ways of passing secret messages, but until very recently few computer scientists paid it much attention -- it seemed more a relic of ancient times, sort of a Paul Revere-type ''one if by land two if by sea'' way of sending information. The ancient Greeks used it, writing a message on a wooden tablet and covering the wood with wax. Sentries would think the tablets were blank, but when they were delivered, their recipients would simply scrape off the wax and read the message. In World War II, Dr. Johnson said, the Allies became so suspicious about hidden messages that the United States Office of Censorship ''took extreme actions, such as banning flower deliveries which contained delivery dates, crossword puzzles and even report cards.''
''A year ago, if you asked consumers what they watch, 11 percent would have said carbs,'' said Michael Polk, chief operating officer at Unilever-Best Foods, which recently introduced 18 low-carbohydrate versions of items like Skippy peanut butter and Ragu tomato sauce. ''Today if you ask, 40 percent of consumers say they are watching carbs. In our opinion, this has evolved into a major shift in consumer behavior.'' The growth has even outpaced the government's ability to regulate the products and their labeling. Since 1999, 728 products that claim to be low in carbohydrates have been introduced, according to the Global New Products Database of Mintel International Group, a market research company. Last month, representatives of 450 companies, including Kraft, ConAgra and Wal-Mart, gathered at a two day Low-Carb Summit in Denver to discuss how to take advantage of what some analysts predict will be a $25 billion market for low-carb products and services this year: everything from low-carb pasta to low-carb European barge cruises and hotel ''get a-weighs.''
''We see this as a positive development,'' said Carol A. Cox, a spokeswoman for Barr. In 2003, an F.D.A. advisory committee voted 23 to 4 to allow the drug's over-the-counter sale without age restrictions. But a top official of the agency overruled that committee and agency staff members, raising concerns that young teenagers might engage in riskier sex if the morning-after pill was easily available. The company revised its application, asking that over-the-counter sale be allowed for women older than 16. In the letter sent yesterday, Dr. Von Eschenbach said the agency would not approve that request but that, if the company met certain restrictions, it would allow over-the-counter sales to women 18 or older. It is up to Barr to assure the agency that the drug would not be sold to those under 18. The company has said that it has already developed a program to restrict sales. Under that program, Plan B would not be available in convenience stores or at gasoline stations, but only in places where there is a pharmacy. Rather than being placed on drugstore shelves, the contraceptive would be behind a pharmacy counter. To buy it, women would have to show photo identification to prove their age.
But most have not adopted the recommendation. Still, Dr. Douglas J. Robertson, a gastroenterologist at Dartmouth University and at the White River Junction VA Medical Center in White River, Vt., said it did not hurt to ask for a doctor's detection rate. ''If you are met with a total blank stare,'' Dr. Robertson said, ''that tells you the doctor is really not clued in to quality issues and is not listening at national meetings.'' Correction:  December 21, 2006, Thursday  Because of editing errors, an article last Thursday about a study finding wide variations in the results of colonoscopies performed by different doctors referred imprecisely to the educational affiliation of Dr. Douglas J. Robertson, a gastroenterologist who commented on the findings. He is on the faculty of Dartmouth Medical School, not ''Dartmouth University.'' The article also misstated the location of the V.A. Medical Center where Dr. Robertson is also on staff. It is in White River Junction, Vt., not White River.
When Richard Newton read in a magazine last year that high levels of a protein called CRP were as powerful as high cholesterol in predicting heart disease risk, he went to his doctor to be tested. Mr. Newton, a 60-year-old retired electrician in Lynnfield, Mass., assumed that his level of CRP (the letters stand for C-reactive protein) would be low, just like his cholesterol level. His overall health was good. He did not take any prescription drugs and had normal blood pressure. And although he smoked, he was not overweight and he exercised every day, playing tennis or spending an hour on an elliptical cross-trainer. But to Mr. Newton's astonishment, the simple blood test done by his doctor showed that his CRP level was 3.1, higher than normal, meaning that he ran twice as much risk of having a heart attack or dying from heart disease as people whose levels were lower than 1 milligram per liter of blood.
But Rudy and his colleagues on low-calorie meal plans are faring better. None have diabetes, and only three have died of cancer. It is too early to know if they will outlive their lab mates, but the dieters here and at the other labs also have lower blood pressure and lower blood levels of certain dangerous fats, glucose and insulin. ''The preliminary indicators are that we're looking at a robust life extension in the restricted animals,'' Dr. Weindruch said. Despite widespread scientific enthusiasm, the evidence that calorie restriction works in humans is indirect at best. The practice was popularized in diet books by Dr. Roy Walford, a legendary pathologist at the University of California, Los Angeles, who spent much of the last 30 years of his life following a calorie-restricted regimen. He died of Lou Gehrig's disease in 2004 at 79. Largely as a result of his advocacy, several thousand people are now on calorie-restricted diets in the United States, says Brian M. Delaney, president of the Calorie Restriction Society.
Pfizer said yesterday that clinical trials of torcetrapib -- a heart medication that is the most important drug in the company's pipeline -- confirmed that it raises blood pressure, a potentially serious side effect. Any problems with torcetrapib would be a serious setback for Pfizer, the world's largest drug company. Pfizer has been counting on the new medicine to eventually replace the $13 billion in annual sales from the cholesterol-lowering drug Lipitor, which loses patent protection in 2010. Cardiologists and Wall Street analysts alike have been closely watching the clinical trials of torcetrapib, a medicine intended to raise so-called good cholesterol. Pfizer's stock dropped 2 percent after the announcement by the company, which has been researching torcetrapib for a decade and is spending $800 million to develop it. Pfizer said it still expected to submit the medicine for federal approval sometime in the second half of next year, with an approval possible in 2008. Pfizer hopes to win approval by showing that a combination of torcetrapib and Lipitor can reduce the formation of plaque in the arteries.
A microneedle had squeezed out all the genetic material from a freshly harvested human egg. Now, in the shadows of a darkened laboratory, a technician in a blue jumpsuit prodded and probed the egg's outer membrane on Monday morning, seeking to introduce a skin cell from a patient with an immune deficiency. Finally, on the third probe, the rubbery wall gave way. Magnified 250 times on a black-and-white screen, the egg could be seen making room for the new skin cell, with its new genetic code. ''I never destroy any life during my process,'' said Dr. Woo Suk Hwang, the laboratory director, his eyes flashing above his surgical mask as he gave a reporter a rare look at the controversial human-cell transfer process developed at this small lab on the sixth floor of Building No. 85 at Seoul National University. To his supporters, Dr. Hwang's report on May 20 that he had created new colonies of stem cells that matched the DNA of their donors was a major leap toward the dream of growing replacement tissues for conditions like spinal cord injuries, juvenile diabetes and congenital immune deficiencies.
Both Dr. Bauknight and the distributor, R. Kenyon Wells, declined to be interviewed for this article, as did Mr. Langer, the Biotronik executive. The Heart Rhythm Society has stated that classroom courses used for fast-track training ''cannot be provided directly'' by the industry because of the potential for conflicts of interest. In a written response, Mr. Langer of Biotronik maintained that it was ''always explicitly'' stated at company-sponsored events that they did not meet the heart society's requirements. Dr. Singhi, who attended those sessions, said he never heard such disclaimers. He added that about a dozen of the hands-on patient implants supervised by Dr. Bauknight were ''doubles,'' or cases in which two doctors trained on one patient. Several experts like Dr. Swerdlow in Los Angeles said they were puzzled by the approach, because doctors were supervised to see if they could handle a new procedure alone. ''You don't get a driver's license if one guy does the turns and the other one parallel parks,'' Dr. Swerdlow said.
Another of Schaff's patients, a 23-year-old waitress and part-time student who is the single mother of a 3-year-old, is in a much different mood. She cries off and on during her examination, and there are dark crescents of sleeplessness under her eyes. When Schaff asks her if she needs anything, she says, ''How about a shot of Cuervo?'' She has opted for a manual vacuum aspiration, a kind of surgical abortion in which doctors use a hand-held tube rather than a noisy machine to empty the contents of the uterus. It is faster than medical abortion -- which appeals to this woman because, she says, ''I just want to get it over with. I don't believe in this. I don't know how I'm going to live with myself. But I have to think of my son.'' It can also be done early, though, and because it does not require expensive specialized equipment, it can be performed in a variety of doctors' offices. Like the secretary, this woman, too, had wanted to avoid a clinic, threading through a phalanx of demonstrators, the whole chaotic scene.
In the past few weeks, we've been treated to a familiar spectacle: scientists trying to nudge one another out of the way as they race toward something the rest of society considers beyond the pale. In this case, they're racing to produce the world's first human clone. A few years ago, such a contest would have seemed preposterous. But now, three different groups say they have clones in the making. Severino Antinori, an Italian fertility doctor, says his clone will be born first. Dr. Antinori, who became famous in 1994 for helping a 62-year-old woman become pregnant by implanting a donor's fertilized egg in her uterus, says he has a clone pregnancy under way in an undisclosed country. The clone, he says, is a boy, due in early January. Panayiotis Michael Zavos in Kentucky, Dr. Antinori's onetime partner and now his bitter enemy, says he does not believe Dr. Antinori, and anyway he is working on something even better. Dr. Zavos, an embryologist, says he has collected cells from seven people who want to be cloned, and in the first two weeks of January he will insert the cells' nuclei into donated human eggs from which nuclei have been removed. He promises that, unlike his rival, he will offer DNA evidence that each of the babies born of this adventure is an exact genetic replica of its parent.
As a fourth-generation pharmacist whose drugstore still sits on the courthouse square of his conservative small town downstate, State Senator Frank Watson knew exactly what side to take when Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich ordered pharmacies to fill prescriptions for women wanting the new ''morning after'' pill, even if it meant putting aside their employees' personal views. ''The governor is trying to make a decision that must be left to the pharmacy,'' said Senator Watson, whose family business, Watson's Drug Store in Greenville, Ill., does not stock the pill. ''It's an infringement on a business decision and also on the pharmacist's right of conscience.'' Senator Watson, the Republican leader of the Senate, and Governor Blagojevich, a Democrat, are the latest combatants in a growing battle over emergency contraception. In at least 23 states, legislators and other elected officials have passed laws or are considering measures in a debate that has attracted many of the same advocates and prompted much of the same intensity as the fight over abortion.
Kolata knows this. She touches on reasons that poor people are more likely than rich people to be overweight, all of them environmental. But she treats childhood obesity as virtually inevitable. In addition to the twin and adoption studies, she cites research showing that teaching kids to eat right in school, and serving them leaner lunches, has no effect on their weights. The researchers concluded that the intervention was too limited -- the children's diets needed to change at home as well as at school. But Kolata scoffs at the ''popular solution,'' which is ''not to question the premise but rather to increase the intensity of the intervention.'' Given the rise in obesity, however, is it really credible to put all the blame on our genes -- and ignore the gazillion-dollar food industry? And while it's useful to point out that obese people don't have higher rates of anxiety, depression or mood disorders, that doesn't mean these conditions are never a factor in causing obesity in those who are genetically susceptible to it. As some of the testimony of Kolata's own dieters attests, we eat not just because our appetites drive us to but because our psyches do, in search of both pleasure and relief from pain or stress.
In the long run, the best hope for resolving these issues lies in improving our understanding of cancer. Advances in genetic analysis may eventually allow scientists to distinguish between tumors that are potentially deadly and those that will remain harmless. Such advances would help clarify what doctors should do when they find tiny tumors on screening tests. Alternatively, someday treatments may become so good that it will not matter when a tumor is found; they will all be curable. But until that day, patients and their doctors will have to chart a course that feels comfortable to them. Some will choose screening and live with the uncertainty over whether any tumor found really needs treatment. Others will skip the screening and risk dealing with a dangerous tumor later, when its presence becomes inescapable. No expert has the answer to what is essentially a matter of individual choice. It is striking that the wife of a leading skeptic about mammography ignores her husband's doubts and gets an annual mammogram anyway, while the woman friend of a prominent believer in annual mammograms is screened only once every three years despite his urgings. Their loved ones may be experts, but it is the women who will have to live with the consequences of their decisions.
Many Christians who are active in the evolving anti-birth-control arena state frankly that what links their efforts is a religious commitment to altering the moral landscape of the country. In particular, and not to put too fine a point on it, they want to change the way Americans have sex. Dr. Stanford, the F.D.A. adviser on reproductive-health drugs, proclaimed himself ''fully committed to promoting an understanding of human sexuality and procreation radically at odds with the prevailing views and practices of our contemporary culture.'' Focus on the Family posts a kind of contraceptive warning label on its Web site: ''Modern contraceptive inventions have given many an exaggerated sense of safety and prompted more people than ever before to move sexual expression outside the marriage boundary.'' Contraception, by this logic, encourages sexual promiscuity, sexual deviance (like homosexuality) and a preoccupation with sex that is unhealthful even within marriage. It may be news to many people that contraception as a matter of right and public health is no longer a given, but politicians and those in the public health profession know it well. ''The linking of abortion and contraception is indicative of a larger agenda, which is putting sex back into the box, as something that happens only within marriage,'' says William Smith, vice president for public policy for the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States. Siecus has been around since 1964, and as a group that supports abortion rights, it is natural enemies with many organizations on the right, but its mission has changed in recent years, from doing things like promoting condoms as a way to combat AIDS to, now, fighting to maintain the very idea of birth control as a social good. ''Whether it's emergency contraception, sex education or abortion, anything that might be seen as facilitating sex outside a marital context is what they'd like to see obliterated,'' Smith says.
The obesity warnings are everywhere. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says that with 35 percent of Americans overweight and 27 percent obese, obesity ''has risen at an epidemic rate during the past 20 years.'' In December, Dr. David Satcher, who was surgeon general, said obesity would soon succeed tobacco as the leading cause of preventable deaths in America. In California, there are calls for taxes on soft drinks. Across the country, there are demands that schools banish soda and candy machines. In Pennsylvania, one school district sent letters to parents telling them their children were too fat. But underlying the cries of alarm are some assumptions about obesity and health that, some leading researchers say, have yet to be supported by facts. No one is claiming that it is good to be obese or that fatness does not matter to health. The problem, they say, is that when it comes to obesity, nothing is as straightforward as it may appear.
By 100, two of three people have some degree of impairment, studies by Margery Hutter Silver, a neuropsychologist with the New England Centenarian Study at Boston University, have shown. Dr. Boeve and his colleagues, who examined 111 people ages 90 to 99 in Rochester, found that some could be extremely forgetful. They may frequently fail to remember appointments, details of recent conversations or even what they just said. Yet many of those people function well on their own. Dr. Boeve plans to keep track of the mental functioning of his study subjects to see how many progress to memory loss or dementia. Many have agreed to autopsies to enable the researchers to determine who, among those with cognitive impairment, actually had Alzheimer's or other dementia. Still, some of Dr. Boeve's patients show no signs of developing any memory loss. Sister Bibiana Lewis, for example, manages her life and seems to think more clearly than many people several generations younger. A 96-year-old retired math and science teacher, she has just published her family's history, she works the Sunday crossword puzzle in The New York Times each week, she conducts tours of the convent, and she reads excessively, she said.
The increase in the use of radiation after mastectomy has forced plastic surgeons to rethink their approach to reconstructive surgery of the breast and has generated a debate about which techniques yield the best (and worst) results. Radiation also limits the choices available to women seeking reconstruction and raises the risk of complications and poor cosmetic results. Some women are left with no good reconstruction options. ''The increase in radiation has huge implications on breast reconstruction, and a lot of plastic surgeons have been debating that topic,'' said Dr. Neal S. Topham, chief of plastic surgery at Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia. For women who want breast reconstruction, the radiation factor has made a difficult decision even more complex. They must choose when to have it and what type is most appropriate. The first issue is the matter of timing -- whether to do the reconstruction immediately or to delay it until radiation therapy is completed, typically six to nine months after a mastectomy. Because radiation damages the skin and tissue of the reconstructed breast, most surgeons prefer women to delay reconstruction, said Dr. Scott L. Spear, chief of plastic surgery at Georgetown University Hospital.
In a paper for a 1996 symposium on the Philadelphia epidemic, Dr. J. Worth Estes, an emeritus professor of pharmacology at the Boston University medical school, described the symptoms of yellow fever. Patients would complain of headaches and abdominal pain, but the disease, he wrote, was easy to spot by its colors: ''yellow eyes and skin, purple hemorrhages into the skin, red blood pouring from the nose and mouth, black vomit.'' A Philadelphia printer and bookseller, Mathew Carey, chronicled the epidemic in a self-published book. The first edition, which sold out in days, was dated Nov. 14, 1793, and by Jan. 26, 1794, it was in its fourth ''improved'' edition. Mr. Carey wrote that patients would get sicker and sicker for four or five days. ''If these symptoms were not soon relieved, a vomiting of matter, resembling coffee grounds in color and consistency, commonly called the black vomit, sometimes accompanied with or succeeded by hemorrhages from the nose, fauces [the oral pharyngeal passage], gums, and other parts of the body -- a yellowish purple color and putrescent appearance of the whole body, hiccup, agitations, deep and distressed sighing, comatose, delerium, and finally death.''
The Johnson &amp; Johnson disk consists of cobalt-chromium endplates around high-density polyethylene. It is named Charit after the hospital in Berlin, where the first version of the device was created 20 years ago by Dr. Karen Buttner-Janz, a former East German Olympic medalist in gymnastics. Some of the anecdotal evidence for the Charit is impressive. The first European recipient of a Charit disk is still playing tennis 20 years later, according to Dr. Bitan. And Jeffrey Lee Gibson, a 46-year-old stunt man who received a disk two years ago as part of the trial of Charit in the United States, said he left the hospital the day of the surgery and was able to perform a four-story stomach-first fall for the television show ''Third Watch'' 12 weeks later. But many American health insurers remain unpersuaded by experiences cited in Europe, where more than 6,000 patients have received disks over the years. Many doctors helping American insurance companies assess new technology say that the European studies do not rigorously track results in enough patients to know how long the disks last. Nor, they say, is there comprehensive data that clearly predicts what happens when they fail.
-------------------- Plans for the Space Station  (By The New York Times) WASHINGTON, June 28 -- The Bush administration will ask Congress to amend a law that prevents the country from buying spacecraft and other services from Russia for the International Space Station, Dr. Griffin announced Tuesday. In testimony before the House committee, Dr. Griffin said the administration was working on language for an amendment that would allow the United States to purchase Russian equipment needed to assure a continued American presence on the orbiting station. An agreement that requires Russia to supply Soyuz rescue ships for international crews on the station expires in April. The Iran Nonproliferation Act prohibits payments by the United States to Russia for goods and services for the space station because Russia had helped Iran develop rocket and nuclear technology.
It is not the only factor, of course. There is smoking, which sharply curtails life span. There is a connection between having a network of friends and family and living a long and healthy life. And there is evidence that people with more powerful jobs and, presumably, with more control over their work lives, are healthier and longer lived. But there is little dispute about the primacy of education. ''If you were to ask me what affects health and longevity,'' says Michael Grossman, a health economist at the City University of New York, ''I would put education at the top of my list.'' Graduate Student Finds Answer The first rigorous effort to decide whether education really changes people so they live longer began in a most inauspicious way. It was 1999 and a Columbia University graduate student, Adriana Lleras-Muney, was casting about for a topic for her doctoral dissertation in economics. She found an idea in a paper published in 1969. Three economists noted the correlation between education and health and gave some advice: If you want to improve health, you will get more return by investing in education than by investing in medical care.
''With no good evidence for efficacy and the potential for increasing the risk for suicide, the risk-benefit balance is unfavorable,'' the researchers reported. Dr. Karen Dineen Wagner of the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, who was the lead outside investigator on the study published in The American Journal of Psychiatry, did not respond to interview requests through a hospital spokeswoman. The two other outside researchers involved, however, both said that Celexa worked well in their test and that the young patients did not experience increased suicidal thoughts. ''I don't know what the raw data looks like from the European study,'' said one of them, Dr. Adelaide S. Robb of the Children's National Medical Center in Washington. She said that she was informed by Forest executives in 1999 that the European study was under way but that she was never told that it had been completed.
That is why on Nov. 22, Mr. Cheney asked Secret Service agents at his home in McLean, Va., to drive him to a hospital. He was admitted to the coronary unit at George Washington University's Medical Center, where doctors said he had experienced a minor heart attack. At the time, doctors reported that one of Mr. Cheney's arteries was 90 percent blocked. But they said the November incident was a heart attack only in a technical sense, in that certain enzymes were detected spilling forth from dead cells. Very little of Mr. Cheney's heart muscle had been damaged, they said. Mr. Cheney, who was released within 48 hours of that incident, has benefited from enormous advances in cardiac surgery and the treatment of heart disease. Using techniques that did not exist a decade earlier, doctors in November opened a blocked coronary artery and inserted a permanent stent, or metal mesh, to keep the artery open in a procedure called angioplasty.
Ronald Graham  Activities coordinator, Detroit Recreation Department I have faith in the P.S.A. test. I'm 49, and I've had two P.S.A.'s, and both have been low. I'll have another one soon and when I'm 50, I'll start having them every year. The risk is much higher for African-American men. It has hit close to home for me. My dad had prostate cancer, though he didn't die of it, and also several of my golfing friends. When you're 45 years old, that's when your risk is high, and that's when you have to start having the P.S.A. test. I do outreach work on prostate cancer in the community, speaking to different churches and community groups, and just trying to bring awareness to my friends. When I tell people they need the test, they react with shock -- not so much for the blood part but the exam. A male is sometimes embarrassed to have someone examine them. But I tell them, you should think about the statistics. They show that almost twice as many African-Americans as whites die from prostate cancer.
Dr. Bloom concluded that satiation ''is neither from the food in circulation after it is absorbed or from the fullness of the gut.'' Those observations led him to PYY, a hormone released by the intestine after a meal. He learned that fat people make less of it than thinner people and that the hormone makes thin people eat less. Rats also eat less when they get it, and they lose weight. Obese people who had gastric bypass operations, which mysteriously result in a loss of appetite, have ''sky high'' PYY levels, Dr. Bloom said. Researchers have long noted that one reason people find it so hard to lose weight is that the body has many ways to thwart them. ''Most of us are the same weight year after year,'' Dr. Bloom said. ''We might be overweight, but we are the same weight year in and year out. Yet every day you are faced with this or that amount of food. You don't measure it, you just naturally regulate your food intake.''
Dr. Woodward cautioned that results based on averages do not apply to individuals. '' 'African-American women' is a very heterogeneous group,'' she said. ''This study doesn't imply that all black women are going to have a bad outcome. But if there is some commonality here that needs more attention and deserves more research, then it should get it.'' Correction:  October 26, 2006, Thursday  An article in Science Times on Tuesday about a new study suggesting that differences in tumor biology may help account for the lower breast-cancer survival rate of African-American women, compared with other racial groups, gave an incomplete affiliation for the lead author, Dr. Wendy A. Woodward. She is an assistant professor of radiation oncology at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. (The center is part of the University of Texas.)
Eventually, all roads lead to abortion. Once, the definition of abortion was simple -- a surgical procedure to extract a fetus -- and with the advent of technology that allowed imaging of the fetus within the womb, abortion opponents found they had a powerful tool; photographs of ''preborn babies'' with human features were common in anti-abortion campaigns. Building on this, and mindful of the difficulty of overturning Roe, they developed an incremental strategy for containing abortion, which has been very effective. Last year, 52 state laws were passed restricting abortion. Currently, more than 100 new state measures are being considered that would limit the procedure, either by making it more difficult to obtain an abortion or by compelling women to reconsider. Nationally, a bill called the Fetal Pain Awareness Act, sponsored by Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, would require a woman seeking an abortion to be told that, as of 20 weeks, a fetus can feel pain, and that she be offered the option of providing it with painkillers. It has not gotten through Congress, and the science of the ''pain age'' is hotly disputed, but four states have adopted similar legislation. The Unborn Victims of Violence Act, which President Bush signed in 2004, makes a violent attack on a pregnant woman two crimes: one on the woman and one on her unborn child. It was denounced by abortion rights groups as a step toward granting full legal status to a fetus.
Dr. Allison agreed. ''I can't rule it out,'' he said, ''but I would be very skeptical.'' Christina Koenig said that her group, Y-ME, is careful in its response to women who think stress caused their breast cancer. While Ms. Koenig said she thought it might have contributed in her case, she knows what scientists say and she does not want to overstate the evidence. When women ask, she said, Y-ME hot line peer counselors tell them, ''We don't have scientific evidence'' and focus on recruiting emotional support to help them now, when they are dealing with treatment and survival. As for Mr. Kiefert, he is now chairman of the board of Us Too, an advocacy and support group for cancer patients, and he does not hesitate to tell men what he believes: that stress caused his cancer, that stress fuels the growth of the prostate cancer cells that are still in his body, and that stress may well have caused their cancer, too.
The discoveries have set off a race by companies hoping to develop cells to be sold for neural transplantation, part of the larger field of regenerative medicine. But harnessing such cells will require negotiating a minefield not only of technical challenges but of ethical ones, since most stem cells come from either embryos discarded by fertility clinics or aborted fetuses. Some scientists and business executives worry that the neural implant field will repeat the history of gene therapy, which has gone through 10 years of largely dashed hopes, controversial clinical trials and burned investors, though there have been some recent signs of success. ''We would do well to learn the lesson from the troubled path of the gene therapy field: not to promise too much too early,'' wrote Anders Bjorklund and Olle Lindvall, Swedish scientists, in a commentary in the June issue of Nature Neuroscience. They said they see signs of a rush toward ''ill-founded clinical trials'' without adequate scientific rationale.
Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. ''How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?'' said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995.
The eggs are frozen using a cryoprotectant formula that helps dehydrate the watery eggs so that they can be safely frozen without forming damaging ice crystals. When a woman is ready to use her eggs, a thawing formulation reverses the process, rehydrating the eggs back to their original state. All this technology doesn't come cheap: Extend's clinics charge $10,000 for the egg retrieval process, $40 a month for storage, and women can expect to pay an additional $3,000 to $4,000 for the necessary fertility drugs. ''It is expensive,'' Ms. Jones acknowledged, ''but if you look at it in terms of other alternatives for having a baby later in life -- such as I.V.F., donor eggs or adoption -- those are all very expensive, too.'' The Extend Fertility Web site appeals directly to women who are afraid of running out their biological clocks. The Web site notes that women today are busy ''obtaining advanced degrees and pursuing successful careers.''
America Online's reluctance to embrace an open standard is certainly understandable, considering how much its instant-message system -- and the related ''buddy list'' technology that lets friends quickly determine if each other is on line -- have contributed to its rise as the most powerful company on the Internet. ''It's an important reason you pay your $21.95 for AOL each month,'' Mr. Noglows said. But even three years ago, America Online acknowledged that it could not keep instant messages limited to its proprietary on-line service. So the company introduced AOL Instant Messenger, a program that anyone with an Internet account could download and use free to send instant messages to both America Online members and any other AOL Instant Messenger user. Instant Messenger enables America Online subscribers who use instant messages at home to also use them at work, even if their office computers do not use the America Online subscription service. But the product also allows people to drop the American Online subscription service entirely and still keep chatting with their friends.
Mr. Berger, who dreaded having his hip replaced, underwent a hip arthroscopy in January. Dr. Monto examined the spot and removed a lesion. In weeks, Mr. Berger was walking easily. Although surgeons in Europe began doing arthroscopy on hip patients decades ago, it has become a popular diagnostic tool in the United States only in the last few years. Many surgeons say that the technique is helping to identify bone and cartilage defects in the hip that do not show up in scans or appear too fuzzy to guide treatments. As a result, patients who until five years ago would have had hip replacements or hip resurfacing are now being treated with less drastic surgeries like removing tissue flap. Dr. Monto described the procedure as a sweet spot ''where diagnosis meets therapy.'' But other surgeons and radiologists say that hip arthroscopy should be used for treating problems that have been diagnosed with conventional screening. Exploratory arthroscopy can be an unnecessary risk, they say, given that the space in the hip joint has little room for the instruments.
The Maryland Court of Appeals appears to agree. On Tuesday, the court rejected a suit brought by a Maryland voter group, TrueVoteMD, which sought to force the state to further improve security on its machines and offer voters a paper-ballot alternative. Still, as the days dwindle, paper remains at the heart of the debate. Nevada, another state that will make near-universal use of touch-screen voting in November, purchased machines manufactured by Sequoia that produce a paper record -- a move that received high marks earlier this month from the Free Congress Foundation, a conservative group in Washington. ''Without an actual paper ballot, we are then left with only the computer's word for the election results,'' the group said in a news release accompanying its informal ''Election Preparedness Scorecard'' three weeks ago. The group gave grades of F to several states -- including Kentucky, Maryland, Delaware and Tennessee -- based on their degree of reliance on paperless electronic voting. Florida, whose results will almost certainly receive intense scrutiny, received an F-plus, while Georgia was given an F-minus. New Mexico, a swing state that will rely heavily on touch-screen voting on Nov. 2, received a D-minus.
As a result, 99.9 percent of the DNA sequence in any two people is the same. Even though the remaining 0.1 percent is a small proportion, in the total human population there are about 10 million places in the genome where differences among people are common. Most of these sequence variants fall in parts of the genome that do not appear to be critical for function. Probably only a few hundred thousand variations in the sequence affect how people function, and only a few hundred, mostly yet to be identified, are likely to be of major medical importance. A small amount of the variation is associated with particular human ethnic or geographic groups, mostly because of natural selection for resistance to disease. However, most human genetic variation occurs from person to person within any ethnic group. Blood type -- A, B, AB or O -- is an example. All human ethnic groups have people with various blood types. The proportion of people with any particular blood type varies from one group to another, but no group is uniform. Any two people in the same group have a good chance of differing in their blood type.
In a presentation to the panel, representatives of Sanofi recommended a special screening of prospective patients to measure their risk for psychiatric symptoms. The company also argued that the drug should be evaluated in light of a growing need for drugs to treat obesity, citing benefits in glucose, HDL cholesterol, tryglycerides and inflammatory markers in patients taking the drug. Currently only two drugs are approved to assist patients with weight loss. One of them, Meridia, by Abbott Laboratories, has been linked to high blood pressure. The other, Xenical by Roche, causes diarrhea and gas. Yesterday's vote came on the same day that Xenical became available without a doctor's prescription under the brand name Alli. The drug is being marketed by GlaxoSmithKline, which purchased over-the-counter rights to the drug from Roche and won F.D.A. approval this year to sell the product directly to consumers. Dr. Hirsch of Rockefeller University said Zimulti's effects on weight were similar to those of other drugs already marketed -- a 5 percent loss followed by a regain of weight.
Inamed representatives often did not respond with specific answers to some of the panel's questions, but pointed to data from its studies that showed general satisfaction with the devices, and some complications. Most women had implants to improve their appearance, said JoAnn M. Kuhne, Inamed's senior director for regulatory and clinical affairs, and 89 percent to 96 percent said they were satisfied with their implants two years later. There were complications, but, Ms. Kuhne said, in every category, the complication rates with silicone implants were the same or lower than with Inamed's saline-filled implants, which are on the market. For example, the risk over two years of having an implant that can be felt or seen after it is in place was less than 1 percent in the women who had silicone implants to augment their breasts as compared with 9 percent in those with saline implants, according to company data. The chance that the implant would wrinkle was 0.7 percent with gel implants as compared with 10.5 percent with saline.
Dr. Fauci described treating 10 patients with multiple cycles of interleukin-2 to ''flush the virus out.'' ''We thought the cells would spit out their virus and die, which would take care of those suckers, and then antiretrovirals would stop proliferation,'' he said. After a moment of jubilation when he found no virus even in biopsies from his patients' lymph nodes, he went for ''the proof of the pudding'' and took the patients off their AIDS drugs. ''Everyone rebounded,'' he said. ''We failed.'' Mike Flanagan, 41, an architect, was in an even harsher pharmacological study led by Dr. Pomerantz. He was chosen, he said, because he knew the exact date when he was infected and was very good at taking his pills on time. He was hospitalized to begin receiving a mix of eight AIDS and cancer drugs, including antiretrovirals, interleukin-2, hydroxyurea and OKT-3. ''It was pretty rough,'' Mr. Flanagan said. ''I got really paranoid, and I had trouble sleeping.''
And all this in just six months. ''He has left the gate,'' said Dr. Rona Applebaum, the executive vice president and chief scientific officer of the National Food Processors Association. ''He has covered more territory than any of the other commissioners that I have had this level of involvement with.'' Former colleagues are not surprised. ''Mark is very, very smart and extraordinarily hard-working and very, very focused,'' said Dr. Alan Garber of Stanford. He called Dr. McClellan ''an inspired choice.'' But Dr. McClellan, 39, is also an unusual choice, in that he is an economist as well as a physician. He is the first economist to lead the agency; previous commissioners were physicians or lawyers. ''Mark is a pragmatic guy who is going to look for solutions,'' Dr. Garber said. ''He's not the kind of person who will put a stake in the ground over some ideological issue.'' Dr. Applebaum, like others whose professional lives hang on this or that F.D.A. decision, finds it hard to evaluate Dr. McClellan. The food industry likes one initiative but not another, consumer advocates are happy with one idea, critical of another. It seems that only those with a one-item agenda have a single opinion.
The government will spend $15 million over the next year for research on the illnesses of veterans of the 1991 Persian Gulf war, the secretary of veterans affairs, Anthony J. Principi, announced Friday. He said it would concentrate on the role of neurotoxins, and not the stress and psychological conditions often implicated as a cause of the veterans' health complaints. Mr. Principi also said the department would establish a research center to develop treatments for gulf war illnesses. ''The men and women who fought there deserve our undivided attention to their questions, to their symptoms, to their futures,'' he said. ''They have been frustrated far too long.'' He said his decision was guided by the findings of a committee of scientists and veterans that he appointed in 2002 to study the ailments of thousands of servicemen and women that persisted after the war. In a report released at a news conference here, the panel, the Research Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses, broke with earlier study groups by pointing to chemical exposures during the war, not the effects of combat stress, as the primary cause of what has sometimes been called Gulf War Syndrome.
Hwang Woo Suk, South Korea's disgraced star scientist, could present no evidence to corroborate his landmark claim that he had cloned human embryos and extracted from them stem cells that genetically match patients, a university panel said Thursday. The announcement by the panel, from Seoul National University where Dr. Hwang did his research, suggested that he did not just grossly exaggerate his work in an article published in the journal Science in June, but fabricated the entire paper. ''So far we could not find any stem cells regarding Dr. Hwang's 2005 paper that genetically match the DNA of patients,'' said Roe Jung Hye, the university's dean of research affairs, in a statement. ''According to our judgment, Dr. Hwang's team doesn't have scientific data to prove that it has produced such stem cells.'' There was no immediate comment from Dr. Hwang, who apologized last week for falsifications in his paper and resigned from the university.
The new study comes just 13 months after different researchers from the disease control centers published a paper warning that obesity and overweight were causing an extra 400,000 deaths a year and were poised to overtake smoking as the nation's leading preventable cause of premature death. That conclusion caused an uproar, and scientists, particularly those who examine the consequences of smoking, questioned the study's methods. In January, the agency's researchers corrected calculation errors and published a revised estimate of 365,000 deaths. Now the new study says that obesity and extreme obesity are causing about 112,000 extra deaths but that overweight is preventing about 86,000, leaving a net toll of some 26,000 deaths in all three categories combined, compared with the 34.000 extra deaths found in those who are underweight. Dr. Donna Stroup, director of the Coordinating Center for Health Promotion at the C.D.C., noted that the previous study had used different data and different methods of analysis.
In the case of M., however, one doctor did make a difference. A few days later, a cardiologist made a personal appeal on M.'s behalf to a surgeon. Unexpectedly, he decided that M. would get his operation after all, once appropriate tests were completed to evaluate his surgical risk. M., for his part, said he would stop using drugs. Observation can change behavior; sometimes it just depends on who is looking. Sandeep Jauhar, M.D., a cardiology fellow in New York City, writes frequently about medicine for The Times.
Yet the conventional understanding is wrong. In the light of hindsight, scientists can now see that the outbreak actually began that September afternoon. Ms. Huden was the anthrax index patient -- the pivot point upon which every outbreak investigation is based, the crucial clue that every medical investigator hopes can be found, and fast. But on that muggy day at Mary Immaculate Church, she suffered her mysterious wound very much alone. No one knew. Those words have become the theme of the medical investigation of the anthrax attacks, a refrain of epidemiological regret. Certainly, the medical investigators have done much to contain the outbreak and save lives. Yet the inside story of that inquiry -- pieced together from interviews with many of the lead investigators and other health-care officials -- is also a tale of missed cues, misread evidence and erroneous assumptions that led scientists and decision makers to misjudge the threat to postal workers and, through the mail system, to the American public.
''If you add up risk factors, the sum of diabetes plus hypertension is greater than either one alone,'' Dr. Nesto said. ''The same blood pressure in a diabetic leads to a higher risk of cardiovascular disease than a similar blood pressure in a nondiabetic.'' Officials of the major health organizations say they have done their best to get the word out. Three years ago, the National Institutes of Health issued an advisory urging doctors and nurses to treat blood pressure more aggressively in people with diabetes. For several years, the American Diabetes Association has sponsored an educational initiative called Make the Link: Diabetes, Heart Disease and Stroke, aimed at both professionals and patients. Other associations have done the same. Dr. Eugene Barrett, a professor of internal medicine at the University of Virginia and the president of the American Diabetes Association, acknowledged that even with a good deal of information, the connection between diabetes and heart ailments had not been made. ''The message of the A.D.A. and others has been consistent that to prevent cardiovascular disease in diabetics, the goal is to lower blood pressure, cholesterol and blood sugar,'' Dr. Barrett said.
But scientists also knew there was a theoretical risk that a retrovirus would lodge near a cancer-causing gene and turn it on. Scientists say that is what happened in the first leukemia case in France. The cause in the second case has not been announced but some scientists say they have heard the cause is similar. But until the second case, scientists believed that the risk was low. There have been perhaps 40 or 50 trials involving more than 100 patients in the United States that involved using retroviruses to insert genes into stem cells, said Dr. Donald B. Kohn, professor of pediatrics at the University of Southern California and a gene therapy expert at Children's Hospital in Los Angeles. Most had limited or no success, but none had caused a cancer-like complication. ''The big question is why are we seeing this all of a sudden in two patients in this trial but not all these previous patients?'' said Dr. Kohn, who was conducting two trials affected by the F.D.A.'s suspension. He said one explanation could be that gene transfer has become more efficient. Another is that there could be something specific to the disease treated or to the gene used in the French experiment.
The investigators began asking why those senescent cells in the prostate glands had stopped dividing. The story was the same as in moles. First the cells lose a normal gene, PTEN, that is often missing in prostate cancer. The effect is the same as knocking out a normal gene with a mutation that creates a cancer gene. Without PTEN, cells grow aberrantly. Then the cells turn on their p53 gene. That halts their division forever. Dr. Pandolfi and his colleagues reproduced the effect in mouseprostates, creating molelike tumors there. Then they asked what would happen in mouse prostates if cells lost not only PTEN but also p53, the fail-safe gene. ''This tumor was now devastating,'' Dr. Pandolfi said. ''It was a tremendously aggressive tumor. It would kill the mouse in a few months.'' Now he wants to find treatments that revert cancers back to a molelike state. ''We should highjack that mechanism,'' Dr. Pandolfi said. After all, he added, it is a dramatic event when the senescence response kicks in and halts cell growth.
Dr. Woolf said his group was also aware of the test's risks, including unnecessary biopsies and anxiety about false positive results. He added that the group also had another concern, for which, he said, the evidence was suggestive but not solid. That is the possibility that a woman will have a treatment like a mastectomy for a small and self-contained tumor that would not have been noticed in her lifetime if she had not been screened. The group added that the clinical trials evaluating mammography had imperfections, leading it to regard the evidence as ''fair'' rather than ''good.'' That complicated its determination of benefits. ''In absolute terms, the mortality benefit of mammography screening is small enough that biases in the trials could erase or create it,'' the group wrote in its paper. ''However, we find that although these trials were flawed in design or execution, there is insufficient evidence to conclude that most were seriously flawed and biased and consequently invalid.''
In a development that may sidestep some of the ethical issues surrounding stem cell research, a scientist here says he has created stem cells that can turn into nerve cells using a kind of embryo that cannot develop into a baby. The work, done in mice, is one of several recent experiments that explore the usefulness of asexual reproduction in deriving stem cells. The researcher, Dr. Jerry L. Hall, uses chemicals to coax an egg to grow into an embryo of sorts without being fertilized by a male's sperm. Such embryos, even if implanted into a womb, would not grow to become viable babies, Dr. Hall and other experts said. But the embryos can be grown in a laboratory for a few days, long enough to become a source of stem cells. Embryonic stem cells can turn into virtually all types of the body's cells, potentially providing replacement cells that can be transplanted into patients to cure diseases. But opponents say such research is immoral because deriving stem cells involves destroying embryos, which they see as nascent human life.
Seven patients are known to have died in episodes during which a Guidant defibrillator short-circuited, though the number of fatalities is probably higher because doctors only recently became aware of the problem. Dr. Schultz said the agency planned to start appointing new experts to the panel within the next few months and expected the process to be completed by October. He said that one problem the agency faced was finding experts who did not have financial ties to heart device manufacturers. The agency's action is apparently in line with a recommendation contained in a report that the Heart Rhythm Society plans to release May 2. Last fall, in the wake of recalls by Guidant and other device producers, the group appointed a task force to recommend ways to improve the gathering and dissemination of information about device performance. The F.D.A, Guidant and other manufacturers of heart devices, like Medtronic and St. Jude Medical, have been involved in developing the forthcoming proposals.
''Until we get a cure for the common cold, the field will always be thought to have not achieved success,'' said Dr. Frederick G. Hayden, a respiratory virus specialist at the University of Virginia. But focusing on the common cold, he and others said, belies the strides made in antiviral drug development and the far more serious challenges ahead.
Screening for breast cancer also fit well with the optimistic message of anticancer organizations. In the face of a terrifying disease, there was something that women could do. Educational messages reinforced the idea that early detection had to work. One poster told women that if they didn't examine their breasts, they should have their heads examined. Publicity about mammography routinely called it a lifesaver. Advocates of mammography designed sophisticated randomized trials to try to prove its value. In a study conducted in the 60's and 70's, the Health Insurance Plan of New York found that women 50 to 64 undergoing intensive screening had a 30 percent lower rate of dying from breast cancer than those receiving care more typical for that era. Trials in Europe corroborated these findings. Yet some critics noted that women still seemed to die of supposedly early cancers they had found during breast self-examination. Others suggested that mammography, particularly for women in their 40's, helped cure few cancers but led to many unnecessary biopsies of lesions that were not cancerous. Supporters of early detection at times denounced these critics as fatalists for questioning something so seemingly logical as early detection.
''For the majority of questions, we have no choice but to use observational studies,'' Dr. Karin B. Michels, an epidemiologist at the Harvard Medical School, said. ''They are our most important tool in public health.'' But such studies have a fundamental drawback. People choose their treatments or behaviors, and those who choose to take vitamin pills or exercise, for example, are quite different from those who do not. Women who use hormone replacement therapy, for example, are thinner, more likely to eat healthy diets, less likely to smoke or drink heavily and more likely to exercise. If they are healthier than other women, is it the hormones, some other behavior or a combination of factors? Statisticians have accounted for such differences in their analyses. But they have to hope that they did not miss other equally important factors and that they have measured all the important factors when they acquired their data.
The incidence of asthma, which causes wheezing, coughing and loss of breath, is rising, for reasons that are not entirely clear. It is responsible for 1.8 million emergency room visits, nearly 500,000 hospitalizations and more than 4,000 deaths a year. When the body is provoked by an allergen it makes a substance called immunoglobulin E. IgE, as it is called, binds to immune system cells that release chemicals like histamine, which in turn cause inflammation and constriction of the airways. Xolair is a genetically engineered protein called a monoclonal antibody that binds to IgE and immobilizes it, preventing the chain reaction from starting. Other drugs, like antihistamines, soak up the chemicals released after an attack has already started. Steroids, which can have serious side effects, dampen the immune system generally. Xolair's approval is part of a recent spate of good news for Genentech, a biotechnology company in South San Francisco, Calif. Its stock has doubled over the last couple of months, mainly because its experimental cancer drug, Avastin, was shown to prolong lives of people with colon cancer.
Emily Bazelon is a senior editor at Slate.
On the other hand, some people say that even a 1 percent improvement in survival is enough to justify therapy. ''We really don't have substantial data to inform our patients about what the risks and benefits are in the one- to three-node positive group,'' Dr. Borgen said. At Sloan-Kettering, women in this group do not routinely receive radiation. The argument for treating women is that it is quite possible that by reducing local recurrence of a cancer to 5 percent from 15 percent the survival rate may be improved. At Duke University, doctors use radiation on anyone who has a single positive lymph node, said Dr. Lawrence B. Marks, professor of radiation oncology there. ''There have been several randomized studies and a survival advantage is seen in every subgroup,'' Dr. Marks said. ''People can poke holes in the studies, but there are a handful of studies with trends in the same direction.'' None of the studies he mentioned were conducted in this country, though.
Ral admitted us, smiling a crinkly Clinton-like smile and wearing his characteristic samurai-style topknot, white pants, wide-shouldered white tunic and gold medallion. His sealed lair is dominated by a large white bed with a tiger-print throw on it. The walls are covered with photographs of his companion, Sophie, a stunning young redhead, in which she is usually bare-breasted and nibbling on a rose or some such. I kept wondering why it is that futuristic prophets so often have to wear jumpsuits and medallions and whether we'll all have to wear them in the future. (My hairdresser had specifically instructed me to ask what was up with the topknot, but I subsequently read in Ral's book that hair and beards are antennae helping the brain transmit messages, so I figure he just wanted taller antennae.) I also thought about how, if you are a futuristic prophet, your life is suffused with pop culture and you can't help looking and acting like guys from ''Deep Space Nine,'' just as real-life Mafiosi can't help looking and acting like guys from ''The Sopranos.''
Those whose balance is affected typically spend 20 days learning to deal with a walker or a cane; those who are partly blind or paralyzed must learn to care for themselves. Many functions return, Dr. Conroy said, but rehabilitation also means learning to live with a disability. But what was perhaps saddest to the neurologists viewing the M.R.I. scans that morning was that tPA, which only recently appeared to be a triumph of medicine, had made not a whit of difference to these patients. They either had not arrived at the hospital in time or had been considered otherwise medically unsuitable to receive it. Few would have predicted that fate for the drug. In 1995, after 40 years of trying to find something to break up blood clots in the brain, the cause of most strokes, researchers announced that tPA worked. A large federal study showed that, without it, about one patient in five escaped serious injury. With it, one in three escaped.
Doubts about mammography are not new. Though many women and their doctors think of annual mammograms after age 40 as normal and necessary, there have long been vocal skeptics. Their dissident view about the usefulness of mammograms may seem to have been fully validated by the study published this fall in The Lancet, concluding that women who have mammography die of breast cancer at the same rate as those who don't. But the issue of breast cancer screening isn't so easily settled. For most of the 20th century, physicians thought that breast cancer was a local disease that only spread to the rest of the body late in its course. Early detection, they assumed, meant that the cancer would be caught and treated before it could kill. So it made perfect sense that the American Cancer Society began in the 1950's to encourage women to perform breast self-examinations and in the 1970's to recommend mammograms.
A Wisconsin teenager is the first human ever to survive rabies without vaccination, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said yesterday, after she received a desperate and novel type of therapy. Last month, doctors at the Children's Hospital of Wisconsin in Wauwatosa, a suburb of Milwaukee, put the critically ill girl into a drug-induced coma and gave her antiviral drugs, although it is not clear which, if any, of the four medicines contributed to her surprising recovery. Dr. Charles Rupprecht of the disease control agency called the recovery ''historic.'' But even the doctors who took care of the girl said the result would have to be duplicated elsewhere before the therapy could be considered a cure or a treatment. ''You have to see this therapy repeated successfully in another patient,'' said Dr. Rodney Willoughby, the associate professor of pediatrics who prescribed the cocktail of medicines for the sick girl, Jeanna Giese, 15. ''Until then, it is a miracle.''
While this news was truly welcome, Mrs. S.'s surgery and a rocky postoperative course had drained her both physically and emotionally. When she finally returned home, it took her several months to recover. She is still paying her hospital bills. Spiral C.T. scanning of the lungs epitomizes the dilemma that plagues modern cancer screening. Through Pap testing and screening for colonic polyps, doctors can successfully prevent cervical and colon cancers. These situations underscore the value of early detection, which has long been the gospel of cancer control. But in the case of other screening tests, like prostate-specific antigen (P.S.A.) testing for prostate cancer and mammography for breast cancer, our ability to discover early-stage tumors or other suspicious lesions is of less clear value. In some instances, we are clearly discovering slow-growing cancers that will  never actually kill the patient or rapidly-growing cancers that have already spread and are thus not ''early'' at all.
The echocardiogram also revealed an abscess, a collection of pus, around the valve. Few conditions in medicine absolutely require surgery, but this is one of them. Antibiotics cannot penetrate into an abscess because there are no blood vessels to deliver the drugs. Left untreated, it is bound to grow, eating away at surrounding tissue. In fact, the abscess had so weakened a portion of M.'s heart that that part of his heart had turned into a thin-walled aneurysm, bulging out with every heartbeat. If the aneurysm ruptured, M. would almost certainly go into congestive heart failure and die. The surgeon thought that M. was probably too sick for surgery. It was going to be a complex operation, involving excision of the infected valve and a portion of the aorta, the major blood vessel emanating from the heart, and replacement with tissue grafts. Besides being a diabetic and a ''re-op,'' M. had had a stroke and a recent bout of congestive heart failure. All that added up to a surgical mortality risk of about 50 percent. The surgeon talked about report cards and admitted that there were pressures to avoid the case. ''I don't know whether it's ethical or unethical,'' he said, ''but in this day and age we are not rewarded for taking care of sick patients.''
Dr. Mark H. Ebell  Family physician, editor of The Journal of Family Practice, Athens, Ga. I don't think teaching breast self-examination is a good use of the limited time I have with my patients. It's one of the those things where it seems like a good idea, it makes perfect sense, but it doesn't work. I do continue to recommend mammography, starting at age 40. But if we have a patient who's at very low risk for breast cancer, based on her family history and health history, then I think it's reasonable to wait until age 50. The biggest challenge is getting women in their 60's and early 70's to be screened, because that's where there's the clearest evidence of benefit, and you tend to have lower rates of screening. Prostate cancer is different. It's often an indolent, slow-growing cancer, and most men who have it die with it and not of it.
Dr. Alvin Novick, a Yale biologist who closed his laboratory in 1982 and curtailed his 25-year study of the sonar systems of bats to confront a widening international health crisis brought on by AIDS, died on April 10 at Yale University Health Services in New Haven. He was 79. The cause was prostate cancer, said a close friend, Dr. Frederick L. Altice, an associate professor of medicine at Yale. A professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, Dr. Novick became an early and enduring advocate for the rights and treatment of people with AIDS. In seminars, letters to publications and courses he taught, Dr. Novick, who trained as a physician, reviewed public policies intended to contain the spread of the virus, and he challenged public officials to face up to the grim realities of the disease. He strongly promoted needle exchanges for intravenous drug users and protection of the privacy and livelihoods of doctors and other health care workers who became infected. He also pressed for safeguards on blood banks.
Just when we had begun to think molecular biologists might be inching their way toward extending the human life span, we are confronted with a bit of bad news. A scientific paper published last week reports that an important protein that defends the body against cancer also promotes aging in mice. That could pose a terrible quandary for anyone in search of the proverbial fountain of youth. Reducing the levels of the protein, known as p53, might help us ward off the symptoms of aging -- but leave us highly vulnerable to cancer. That doesn't sound like a great trade-off. Of course, nobody ever said that extending longevity would be easy. Mother Nature has failed to design humans for long life. The great shaping force of biological evolution -- natural selection -- favors the proliferation of genes that enable an organism to reproduce successfully. It does not favor genes that would prolong life after the reproductive years are over.
Jim is 57 and has yet to undergo the procedure. ''My father died of colon cancer,'' he said, shaking his head. ''I know I should have one.'' With colon cancer in the family, any person's risk of acquiring the disease doubles by age 40. For those people, resisting colon cancer screening is playing Russian roulette. Jim claims he watches his diet and eats fiber regularly and, yes, is going to get a colonoscopy. ''I'm going to do it. I just haven't gotten there yet.'' Right. The most common method of colon cancer screening is flexible sigmoidoscopy because it is now covered by Medicare. It is not adequate in more than 50 percent of the applications, though, because it does not reach the upper colon. So, colonoscopy remains the probe of choice. The modern, flexible sigmoidoscopy is less intrusive, but still there is resistance. The American College of Gastroenterologists runs a never-ending advertising campaign with the warning, ''People will die of embarrassment.'' Beyond embarrassment, the mere thought of these procedures touches on a common fear of invasion with many men.
They take it a lot more seriously. I can say to my patients who feel depressed, ''I had the same thing and it does get better.'' Ronald Swidler, 72  Palo Alto, Calif. I had my surgery on July 16. I was told depression is as high as 85 percent, but I never had depression before or after. My own theory is that I was upbeat before the operation and was not apprehensive. Or maybe it is my scientific background, because I was a chemist for 40 years. I think maybe some people have a doom and gloom attitude. I have suggested that perhaps there should be more preoperative counseling just to let people know that the success rate from the surgery is high, but you will feel uncomfortable. It is not a very pleasant experience but you do overcome it. I think doctors should be candid and tell people that they will be uncomfortable. They should tell patients that sleep will be difficult for at least a couple of weeks and there will be chest pain. Fatigue definitely lasts for at least six weeks.
True, using technology to choose a child's sex is selfish. But using the word the same way -- something done for oneself -- isn't having children in the first place equally selfish? We have them because we have a vision of life as we wish it to be, and we set out to fulfill that vision. If there is a gap between hope and reality -- if we find we cannot have children -- we turn to science to bridge that gap, and society accepts (in fact, often applauds) our use of science. What, then, is the difference between a dream of children and a dream of a son or a daughter? I do not dismiss the ethical gray tones, the risks of misuse. Instead, I weigh them and conclude that for every problem this technology might create, there is an existing problem that it might solve. Yes, parents might pressure their Microsort girls to be girls, but wouldn't those same parents potentially damage their natural boys? Yes, there might be a preponderance of little sisters, but might we also have fewer families of four, five and six children, all conceived in the search for an elusive girl or boy?
More recently, Regeneron hoped it had a winner in Axokine, a genetically engineered version of a human protein that signals the brain to stop eating. But the company placed Axokine on the back burner last year after patients developed antibodies against the protein, blocking its effectiveness. GlaxoSmithKline, meanwhile, is still smarting from the defeat of one of its promising weight-loss drugs, called 771. In February, after 14 years of development and millions in costs, the company announced that it would no longer pursue the drug because it simply had not worked in clinical trials. ''We get to the point that, after years of blood, sweat and tears, we're left with tears,'' said Dr. Kenneth Batchelor, a scientist who directs metabolic disease research for Glaxo. But the company is now trying several other ideas, still hoping to solve the human metabolic puzzle. At Boston University, Dr. Corkey and four other scientists have formed their own small company, AdipoGenix. They hope to outwit the metabolic system by locating a drug that attacks fat cells directly, bypassing all the circuitry. The idea is intriguing enough that Johnson &amp; Johnson has agreed to invest, in a deal worth up to $60 million if all benchmarks are met.
''We still don't have a final answer,'' said Dr. JoAnn Manson, the chief of preventive medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, an author of the new study and a principal investigator for the Women's Health Initiative. The new report, she said, does not mean the findings of the health initiative are invalid, but that the picture is complex. Viewing hormone therapy as ''good for all women or bad for all women is an oversimplification,'' she added. Many doctors, however, have already made up their minds. ''Personally, in my heart of hearts, I think there is a benefit,'' said Dr. Mary Jane Minkin, a clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Yale. ''However,'' Dr. Minkin said, ''I'm politically incorrect if I say that.'' Still, she said, the tenor of discussion about hormone therapy at the annual scientific meetings of the North American Menopause Society in the fall was substantially different from the scene in 2002, when the figures from the Women's Health Initiative set off a hormone panic.
EXPERTS have long been puzzled by the existence of large regional disparities in medical care in the United States. Even for diseases for which the appropriate treatment is widely accepted, doctors across the country take vastly different approaches, often leading to enormous expense without making any appreciable improvement in their patients' health. Consider heart attacks. Prescribing beta blockers immediately after a heart attack is a well-established, cheap and efficient treatment. In Iowa, nearly 80 percent of victims in 2000 received the drugs within 24 hours of a heart attack. In Alabama or Georgia, by contrast, fewer than 6 out of 10 patients received the drugs. ''What makes the lag in beta-blocker adoption puzzling is that the clinical benefits have been understood for years,'' wrote Jonathan S. Skinner and Douglas O. Staiger, economists at Dartmouth, in a recent study about these regional patterns. Congress has decided that some treatment decisions may be best taken out of doctors' hands. In one of their last acts this year before adjourning, lawmakers passed a bill entitling doctors to a bonus from Medicare if they report data on the quality of their care, using criteria like whether they prescribe aspirin or beta blockers to heart attack victims. In the future, this data would permit Medicare to reward doctors who followed government guidelines.
Viruses and bacteria are often lumped together as germs. But when it comes to drugs to treat the illnesses they cause, the microbes are worlds apart. There are dozens upon dozens of drugs that kill bacteria, the first ones discovered in the 1920's. Although resistance by bacteria to these antibiotics is a problem, the drugs often work quickly to kill the bugs and cure the patient. With viruses, the story is different. There are only about three dozen antiviral drugs, and half were developed only in the last 15 years to treat a single disease, AIDS. Antiviral drugs usually do not cure the disease, only slow the virus or reduce the symptoms. Scientists have never been able to cure the most ubiquitous viral disease, the common cold. The dearth of antiviral drugs has been brought into focus by the inability to treat SARS, the newly emerging viral infection that kills perhaps as many as 20 percent of the people who contract it.
Dr. Donald Berry, the head of biostatistics at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, has a Ph.D. in his field and long years of expertise in designing and interpreting results of clinical trials. Dr. David Freedman, a statistics professor at the University of California at Berkeley, has similar credentials. Yet, when they examine data from one of the most widely cited studies of mammography, they come to different conclusions. And therein lies the conundrum: how can experts look at the same data and disagree over their meaning? The research, known as the Health Insurance Plan Study, or HIP, is one of the first and largest mammography studies. Begun in New York in the 1960's, it involved more than 60,000 women randomly assigned to have mammograms or not and followed for 18 years. The study found that the breast cancer death rate was about 30 percent higher in women who did not have mammograms. Of about 30,000 who were not screened, 196 died of breast cancer compared with 153 of about 30,000 who had mammograms.
Because the radiation does not go to the marrow, it is biologically impossible for depleted uranium to cause leukemia, said Dr. John Boice, scientific director of the International Epidemiology Institute, a research concern in Rockville, Md., and an expert on radiation and cancer. ''To get leukemia,'' Dr. Boice said, ''you need to get the radiation to the bone marrow. And uranium 238 will not get to the bone marrow.'' Dr. Bruce Boecker, a radiation biologist at the Lovelace Respiratory Research Institute in Albuquerque, said, ''I don't think it causes leukemia at all.'' If a person inhales uranium 238, it lodges in the lungs where, in theory at least, it might cause lung cancer or it might travel to the lymph nodes and theoretically cause lymphoma. But Dr. Boice said extensive studies of workers who processed uranium, some exposed to high levels by breathing uranium dust, did not find any association between inhaling uranium 238 and developing lung cancer or lymphomas.
President Bush's stem cell policy seeks to meet that challenge. It encourages scientists to pursue the cells they seek without destroying life. Scientific advances in the past two years have suggested that this can be done: that ''pluripotent'' cells could be developed without harming human embryos; that stem cell science and ethics can be reconciled. But some members of Congress nonetheless insist on a policy that sets the two at odds. If we cannot pass this first and simplest test of our devotion to human equality and dignity in the age of biotechnology, we will have little chance of meeting the far more difficult challenges to come. Biomedical science can offer us tremendous benefits, but only if we make sure they do not come at the cost of our highest ideals. Op-Ed Contributor Yuval Levin, a fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, is a former executive director of the President's Council on Bioethics.
''Almost any virus can be subject to chemical attack now, if it's important enough to mount the effort,'' said Dr. Robert C. Gallo, director of the Institute of Human Virology at the University of Maryland and co-discoverer of H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. ''Prior to AIDS,'' he added, ''most people didn't think it was doable.'' Antivirals are a rapidly growing part of the pharmaceutical industry, though still small, with most of the major companies involved. Sales of such drugs last year totaled $5.6 billion in the United States, up 20 percent from 2001, according to NDCHealth, a health care information company. To get a toehold in the antiviral sector, Novartis, the Swiss drug giant, recently agreed to pay $255 million for a majority stake in Idenix Pharmaceuticals, a hepatitis drug developer in Cambridge, Mass. Gilead Sciences of Foster City, Calif., which has developed four antiviral drugs, including Viread for AIDS and Tamiflu for influenza, now has the third-highest stock market valuation in the biotechnology industry, behind Amgen and Genentech.
Every piece told a story. As the independent board investigating the loss of the shuttle Columbia and its crew worked through the mountains of debris and data that had been collected in the $400 million effort to solve the mystery of the Feb. 1 accident, investigators often showed the obvious excitement of people taking part in a grand detective story. The result is a detailed ''working scenario'' based on close examination of debris, sensor data, computer modeling and more. And at every turn, the suggestions of how the disaster unfolded are backed up with meticulous experimentation: Sherlock Holmes at the lab bench. This month, the Columbia Accident Investigation Board released the final version of that working scenario, a 200-page document that is the most thorough telling yet of the Columbia story -- from preparations for flight that stretch back months and years to the fateful collision with a piece of errant foam 80 seconds after liftoff to the doomed mission's final 15 minutes.
New York University, in fact, has raised the issue many times, Dr. Devinsky said. ''My answer was that they had to look at the bigger picture,'' he said, telling New York University officials, for example, that his practice at St. Barnabas could eventually generate new referrals from New Jersey for complex surgeries or other services. But, clearly, St. Barnabas sees Dr. Devinsky as a way to keep New Jersey's epilepsy patients at their hospital for all their needs. The state has long been at a disadvantage in preventing its patients from traveling to New York -- or, in the southern part of the state, to Philadelphia -- partly because it had no medical school until the early 1960's, when Rutgers Medical School accepted its first class. It was not until 1981 that the school, renamed the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, was expanded, creating teaching affiliates at many of the state's 106 hospitals.
''This is a revolutionary way of using an old technology,'' said Dr. Martin J. MacPhee, the principal Red Cross scientist working on the project. ''And by delivering 10 to 20 times more clotting factors to a wound than naturally available in the blood, it can stop a gushing hemorrhage with a clot that is much, much stronger than normal.'' When there is a bloody injury, thrombin activates small blood cells called platelets, which collect at the site to form a loose plug. Thrombin interacts with fibrinogen to form an insoluble compound called fibrin, which binds platelets to other proteins in the wound to form a clot and scab. Because the two clotting proteins begin forming fibrin as soon as they come into contact, using them outside the normal process requires that they remain separated until needed. For years, surgeons have taken fibrinogen and thrombin liquids and mixed them in the operating room to form a glue-like biological adhesive that they used to control minor and moderate bleeding along sutures and other parts of surgical wounds.
Correction:  May 26, 2003, Monday  Because of an editing error, an article last Monday about increased use of a drug that can prevent pregnancy within several days after sex misstated the position of the American Life League on making it available over the counter. The group, which opposes abortion and birth control, said it was not petitioning against an application for over-the-counter sales. But it did not disclaim plans to oppose approval.
The new results from the Women's Health Study validate setting a higher level of risk for women, Dr. Smith said. ''The really big message here is that women need to know their risk,'' he added. People who already have suffered a heart attack or stroke are typically advised by their doctors to take a low dose of aspirin daily, because research has clearly established its benefit in preventing subsequent heart attacks. Aspirin is also recommended for people who are experiencing symptoms of a heart attack. ''If you're having a heart attack, it means you have a clot already,'' Dr. Buring said. ''If you take an aspirin, it will keep another clot from forming.'' The Women's Health Study was also set up to measure the effect of taking vitamin E supplements. The subjects were randomly assigned to take 600 international units of a vitamin E pill or a placebo every other day.
While we remain in this zone of uncertainty, people with arthritis should remember that conventional over-the-counter agents like naproxen (as in Aleve) or ibuprofen (as in Advil) work extremely well, are much cheaper than the Cox-2 agents, and are not known to have any risk of heart attacks. In addition, one of the most-cited benefits of the Cox-2 agents -- that they are less likely to cause stomach ulcers than over-the-counter drugs -- may ben grossly exaggerated. Second, and what may be more alarming, is that despite studies showing the magnitude of the public health problem, for several years Merck did nothing to investigate. This surely represents a conflict between the interests of the public and the interests of a company with a blockbuster drug that had sales of $2.5 billion in 2003. Instead of doing the requisite research in patients with heart disease -- who frequently have arthritis as well and are thus prime users of anti-inflammatory medicines -- the company undertook studies that avoided them. At the same time, Merck spent at least $100 million a year for direct-to-consumer Vioxx advertising, while the company's employees and their consultants published several papers in medical journals rebutting studies reporting Vioxx's heart attack risk. The Food and Drug Administration could have forced Merck to do the appropriate research studies, but instead it was a bystander.
In Boston, the state police pull over a batboy who had borrowed the car of a Red Sox infielder and discover a vial containing anabolic steroids in the glove compartment. In San Diego, the Padres randomly test minor leaguers for steroids at spring training and find that about one in five test positive. In Miami, a veteran outfielder says he believes as many as 40 percent of major leaguers have used the muscle-building drugs. No one knows for certain how many professional ballplayers are using testosterone-based drugs, but there is a growing suspicion among many people in baseball that the national pastime has become tainted with steroid abuse. Unlike the National Football League, college athletics and sports overseen by the International Olympic Committee, Major League Baseball does not randomly test players for steroids or other drugs that may improve performance. But suspicions abound, especially in recent years, as more and more players have put on muscle during off-season training and hitters have begun slugging home runs at a record pace.
Biotechnology industry officials said that only 27 pages of information had been kept confidential out of the hundreds submitted. Moreover, starting about two weeks ago, even those 27 pages could be viewed by the public in 11 E.P.A. reading rooms around the country. But those who view the data must sign an agreement not to copy it or discuss it with others, although they can submit confidential comments to the E.P.A. The E.P.A. routinely requires that some information not be disclosed to a company's competitors. But this extra nondisclosure agreement, drawn up by the agricultural biotechnology industry, appears to be unusual, and some environmentalists said it was too restrictive. Stanley H. Abramson, a lawyer in Washington who represents agricultural biotechnology companies, said the industry saw the study results as favorable and would have been happy to have them released earlier but did not want to jeopardize the academic scientists' chances of publication.
Dr. Rossouw said all possibilities remained open: the nurses' study and ones like it could be right and the Women's Health Initiative could be wrong, or vice versa. If each is right, he said, it may be because the women in the two types of studies are different in a way that researchers have not yet figured out. But if so, it means that hormones protect some women but are too risky for others. Then again, Dr. Rossouw said, maybe each study is wrong. Maybe estrogen, in pills, is not the chemical to focus on. What is missing, he said, is an explanation for sex differences in heart disease. Throughout life, women have less heart disease than men, and the difference is especially pronounced at younger ages. He said it was possible that estradiol, the estrogen women naturally produce and that goes directly to their bloodstream is protective. The estrogen in pills, metabolized by the liver before entering the blood, may be harmful. Neither the nurses' study nor the Women's Health Initiative addressed that question, Dr. Rossouw said.
Dr. Cawkwell said Pfizer wanted to give the results first to investigators in the trial, which it did a couple of months ago. Then it was preparing a scientific publication to inform a broad range of doctors. But given current concern, she said, the company decided to release the data even before the scientific publication. Dr. Cawkwell said there was no urgency to announce the findings about Bextra when Vioxx was recalled because Pfizer thought that most patients switching off Vioxx would move to Celebrex. But the company is now seeing that a significant number of Vioxx users are moving to Bextra, which had sales of $545 million in the first half of this year, so it made the data public to help patients and physicians decide, she said. In trading yesterday, Pfizer's shares rose 50 cents, closing at $29. Merck was up 40 cents, to $30.90. Dr. Cawkwell said the Bextra results in coronary-bypass patients were not indicative of the risk for the broader population. ''The setting is so unique that it may or may not be applicable,'' she said.
LYNN Wilson trained for her first marathon the way many novice runners did in the 80's -- on her own. Her only goal was to finish, and she did, dead last. For her next marathon nearly 15 years later, she followed an 18-week program she found online, and knocked 45 minutes off her personal best. ''I was happy,'' said Dr. Wilson, 49, a psychologist from San Diego. ''But I thought 'I can do better.' '' For one thing, she was plagued by questions. Was she running far enough? Should she allow a cold to slow her down? ''I was driving myself crazy,'' Dr. Wilson said. ''I needed someone who knew more than I did to help me make those decisions.'' Dr. Wilson did something that an increasing number of middle-of-the-packers do: she hired a coach. It used to be that only top athletes paid experts to get them to the starting line. But in a culture in which people are accustomed to outsourcing every chore -- tax preparation, laundry, even the organization of a cluttered garage -- it's only logical that recreational athletes are engaging experts to help them figure out how to make the most of their modest skills.
The glycemic-index concept and the idea that starches can be absorbed into the blood even faster than sugar emerged in the late 70's, but again had no influence on public health recommendations, because of the attendant controversies. To wit: if you bought the glycemic-index concept, then you had to accept that the starches we were supposed to be eating 6 to 11 times a day were, once swallowed, physiologically indistinguishable from sugars. This made them seem considerably less than wholesome. Rather than accept this possibility, the policy makers simply allowed sugar and corn syrup to elude the vilification that befell dietary fat. After all, they are fat-free. Sugar and corn syrup from soft drinks, juices and the copious teas and sports drinks now supply more than 10 percent of our total calories; the 80's saw the introduction of Big Gulps and 32-ounce cups of Coca-Cola, blasted through with sugar, but 100 percent fat free. When it comes to insulin and blood sugar, these soft drinks and fruit juices -- what the scientists call ''wet carbohydrates'' -- might indeed be worst of all. (Diet soda accounts for less than a quarter of the soda market.)
Some pediatric endocrinologists said that while Dr. Kaplowitz and Dr. Oberfield had been careful to include caveats and nuances in their article calling for revised guidelines, the message that got out was to dismiss puberty in 6- and 7-year-old girls as normal. As a result, said Dr. Reiter, president of the Lawson-Wilkins society,  he worried that pediatricians were taking age 6 for black girls and age 7 for whites as ''a magic number'' for the onset of sexual development. These girls ''need to be individually monitored, individually followed,'' he said, adding that doctors ''should not be saying: 'Don't worry about it. It's normal. See you at your next annual exam.' ''
Dr. Bennett predicted that quantum cryptographic devices might find a niche in corporate suites. ''It will likely be a vanity item,'' he said. ''The boss has a fancy computer -- even if he doesn't know how to operate it. If you think your conversations are very important and it only costs $500 to put it there, then you might do it. People would come in and think he must be very important because he needs quantum cryptography on his desk.'' WHAT'S NEXT  Correction:  June 16, 1999, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an article in Circuits on Thursday about quantum cryptography referred incorrectly to a new I.B.M. system. It is based on the different polarizations of photons, not protons.
The other section included 10,739 women who had had hysterectomies and who were taking estrogen alone or a placebo. It was stopped prematurely in February 2004, when researchers concluded that after almost seven years the therapy increased the risk of stroke and clots in the leg and did not curb heart disease. Women in the study who took estrogen alone actually developed fewer cases of heart disease and breast cancer. But the researchers said the differences were so slight that they might have been because of chance. The women on estrogen also benefited from fewer hip fractures. Dr. Jacques Rossouw, project officer of the Women's Health Initiative, acknowledged that questions remained about the risks of hormone therapy for younger women who start treatment around menopause, but said the trials established that it should not be used to prevent cardiovascular disease in older women. Dr. Rossouw noted that when the trials began in the 1990's the trend was for gynecologists to prescribe hormones to postmenopausal women of all ages for the express purpose of preventing heart disease. The Women's Health Initiative, he said, was intended to evaluate that practice.
In Washington, a pharmacist can form an agreement with a doctor in which the doctor delegates authority to the pharmacist to dispense specific prescription products, like pills or vaccines. The agreements can go into detail about such things as counseling patients and making sure that the drugs are appropriate for them. The method could work for morning-after pills, the advocates reasoned. At first the pharmacists gave women high doses of birth control pills or Preven, but more recently they have been giving out Plan B. So far, 30,000 women have received the pills, said Jane Hutchings at Path. Other states have slightly different laws but several, including Oregon, California and Alaska, could allow similar arrangements. Mrs. Schaefer of Katterman's Sand Point Pharmacy signed up right at the beginning, she said. But her interest started out as rather dispassionate. That changed when she met the doctor behind the prescriptions. Mrs. Schaefer, who had never heard of the doctor and knew nothing about her, set off to a neighborhood she did not know to meet the doctor and get the necessary papers in order. When she saw the doctor's office, she was shocked.
Three other health centers upstate and one on Long Island will also take part. Dr. Henschke said she would be the project's principal investigator. Patients have converged on many radiologists and other doctors who offer the CT scan, hoping to detect potentially deadly tumors as early as possible. Lung cancer is the country's leading cause of cancer deaths, with about 157,000 each year. ''I don't think recruitment is going to be a problem,'' Dr. Mitchell said. But the popularity of spiral CT screening is troubling to some doctors, including Dr. Barnett Kramer of the National Institutes of Health, who believe the scans may help cancer detection but do nothing to help patients live longer. Despite those concerns, ''Most people believe this is worthy of a trial,'' Dr. Stocker said. Correction:  August 22, 2000, Tuesday  An article yesterday about a medical study of an experimental X-ray screening test for diagnosing and treating early stages of lung cancer paraphrased one doctor's concerns about the test incorrectly. The doctor, Barnett Kramer of the National Institutes of Health, says that although the test, known as spiral CT screening, may help cancer detection, whether it will help patients live longer remains undetermined. He did not say that the test does nothing to help patients live longer.
The studies do not address the effects of exercise on overall health, whether it helps ward off heart disease or brings longer life, but they are intent on determining the answers to certain health-related questions. For instance, the new research may help find better ways of preventing old people from falling because their muscles are weak. Is there a way of deciding who needs extra help in maintaining muscle strength or is there an ideal way of augmenting strength in people who are genetically predisposed to be weak? Muscular dystrophy is even more of a puzzle. Animals with the human gene defect grow bigger and bigger muscles -- some, like cats, can become so muscular that even their tongues get huge, unable to fit in their mouths. Children with muscular dystrophy initially grow huge muscles, without trying to do so, and then, after about age 5, their muscles waste away. Can an understanding of the genetic variants that control how large and how strong muscles grow lead to better treatments?
Many doctors say that for women to turn their backs on hormone replacement therapy would be a gross overreaction. ''I don't think we should throw out the baby with the bath water just because of this one study,'' said Dr. Daniel R. Mishell, chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Southern California's Keck School of Medicine. Dr. Mishell and others point out that the increased risk of breast cancer and cardiovascular problems for a woman in the federal study was small. Many doctors still say that taking hormones for two to four years, to treat temporary symptoms of menopause, is probably safe for most women. And the fact is, nothing else works as well as estrogen to relieve hot flashes and vaginal dryness. Still, the news from the Women's Health Initiative study is prompting a reassessment of the standard regimen of hormone replacement therapy. It seems likely that in the months ahead, many doctors will be prescribing formulations of estrogen and progestin that are tailored to each woman's health and personal preferences. Some women will opt for lower doses, and some will forgo hormones altogether in favor of other remedies.
Days after his televised fall from grace, Hwang Woo Suk, South Korea's cloning pioneer, re-emerged Monday as a national hero as the country rallied around him in an outpouring of nationalism and sympathy for the goals of his stem cell research. ''As a mother, I see the world differently,'' Hong Na Kyung, 31, a consultant, said when asked why she had signed up to donate her eggs for his laboratory research. ''I want to see a better world and a better Korea for my children, and I think Dr. Hwang can help.'' Ms. Hong was one of 760 South Korean women who have registered in the last week to donate eggs. The list included an entire high school class of 33 girls. A nonprofit egg donor foundation was started last week after Dr. Hwang admitted to covering up the fact that in 2002 and 2003, during an a shortage of human eggs for research purposes, two of his junior researchers donated their own eggs, and that about 20 other women had also been paid for donating eggs.
More recently, Regeneron hoped it had a winner in Axokine, a genetically engineered version of a human protein that signals the brain to stop eating. But the company placed Axokine on the back burner last year after patients developed antibodies against the protein, blocking its effectiveness. GlaxoSmithKline, meanwhile, is still smarting from the defeat of one of its promising weight-loss drugs, called 771. In February, after 14 years of development and millions in costs, the company announced that it would no longer pursue the drug because it simply had not worked in clinical trials. ''We get to the point that, after years of blood, sweat and tears, we're left with tears,'' said Dr. Kenneth Batchelor, a scientist who directs metabolic disease research for Glaxo. But the company is now trying several other ideas, still hoping to solve the human metabolic puzzle. At Boston University, Dr. Corkey and four other scientists have formed their own small company, AdipoGenix. They hope to outwit the metabolic system by locating a drug that attacks fat cells directly, bypassing all the circuitry. The idea is intriguing enough that Johnson &amp; Johnson has agreed to invest, in a deal worth up to $60 million if all benchmarks are met.
''There's no producer on this planet that's going to accept 100 percent mortality without notifying someone,'' said Dr. Cardona, a poultry veterinarian at the University of California, Davis. At the Agriculture Department, the chief of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, W. Ron DeHaven, agreed that ''any blip in bird mortality'' would alert poultry farmers that the H5N1 strain had arrived. But Dr. DeHaven added that ''any surveillance in avian influenza is a good thing.'' The chicken industry's program is stricter than his department's voluntary one, he said. Flus are common in birds, and most produce only respiratory symptoms, leaving the birds safe to eat once they recover. Lethal strains are already legally ''notifiable'' diseases, meaning that a farmer or a veterinarian who finds them in a flock must notify state veterinarians, who must in turn notify the United States Department of Agriculture. ''But we're not waiting for signs to show up,'' said Richard Lobb, a chicken council spokesman.
But what if doctors firmly in the fold of evidence-based medicine were not so circumspect about offering magic, hope and comfort? What if they did resort more often to tonics or their equivalent -- to the old-fashioned squeezing of the hand and the slightly unrealistic imparting of hope that is now frowned upon as a bit too authoritarian and paternalistic? What if they started thinking of placebos as a way of bridging the gap between the magnificent but sometimes cold efficiency of modern American medicine and the unproven but evidently comforting remedies prescribed by homeopaths and herbalists? After all, more and more people seem to be drawn to alternative medical therapies -- half of all Americans say they have tried them -- despite a distinct lack of empirical proof for their effectiveness. Yet people may actually harm themselves if they down the latest untested herbal panacea, while if they take an inert substance (or get a cheering speech) given by a conventional physician, they will do no worse and they stand a good statistical chance of doing better. There is something to be said, surely, for a little benign deception.
''If you stop and drink a couple of cups, you are overdoing it,'' he said. Dr. Adner said athletes also should be careful after a race. ''Don't start chugging down water,'' he said. Instead, he advised runners to wait until they began to urinate, a sign the body is no longer retaining water. The paper's lead author, Dr. Christopher S.D. Almond, of Children's Hospital, said he first heard of hyponatremia in 2001 when a cyclist drank so much on a ride from New York to Boston that she had a seizure. She eventually recovered. Dr. Almond and his colleagues decided to investigate how prevalent hyponatremia really was. Until recently, the condition was all but unheard of because endurance events like marathons and triathlons were populated almost entirely by fast athletes who did not have time to drink too much. ''Elite athletes are not drinking much, and they never have,'' Dr. Noakes said.
Barron H. Lerner, an associate professor of medicine and public health at Columbia, is author of ''The Breast Cancer Wars.''
Instead, she focuses on how little weight those who follow any diet usually manage to keep off. (The average participant on the Atkins diet reported in JAMA lost only 10 pounds over the course of a year.) Kolata tells the stories of four dieters in the Penn trial who are smart and likable. They had the benefit of a professionally led support group and the status of taking part in a well-financed study. They started exercising; they stopped eating mindlessly. After two years, they're a bit lighter. But none achieved the 50- to 100-pound weight loss they strove for (though one lost more than 30 pounds, 15 percent of his body weight). Kolata marshals scientific evidence to explain why keeping weight off is so difficult. (The discovery last month of a garden-variety ''fat gene'' further backs her up.) Fat people have more fat cells than other people. Their metabolisms are normal but their appetites are larger -- after they lose a significant amount of weight, one researcher explains, they often feel ''a primal hunger'' as strong as the urge a thirsty person feels to drink. Studies of twins and of adopted children show that inheritance may account for as much as 70 percent of weight variance. In one study of adopted children, 80 percent of those with two obese birth parents became obese, compared with 14 percent of those with birth parents of normal weight -- and it didn't much matter what the adoptive parents fed the kids.
The problem had become clear in mice. Scientists created diabetes by  destroying the animals' islet cells and then, with ease, cured the disease by transplanting new ones. But, they found, transplants did not work in another strain of mice whose diabetes more closely resembled the human disease, caused when their immune systems attacked and killed the islet cells. Despite islet cell transplants, the mice remained diabetic. Nonetheless, doctors have spent decades trying to cure severe diabetes by giving patients new pancreases or new islet cells, with generally dismal outcomes, said Dr. David M. Nathan, who directs the diabetes center at Massachusetts General Hospital. The best results by far are from a small study by scientists at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, Canada, who transplanted islet cells to patients with severe diabetes and used a new regimen of drugs to suppress the immune systems. Their initial report, nearly two years ago, was that all eight patients who had the transplants no longer had diabetes. Last year, they published an update, on a total of 12 patients who had islet cell transplants. Four no longer had any signs of diabetes -- their blood sugar levels were normal. In five patients, blood sugar levels were elevated, an indication that the islet cells were not fully functioning. And in three, diabetes had returned.
A REVOLUTION AT 50
Dr. Stephenson is happy for her. But she asked, ''How about the next 10 couples who spent the money and didn't have a baby?''
And there's something else patients and their families should think about. Let's say you're a family member and you're trying to decide whether the estranged sibling should fly across the country and make peace with the dying person. You can make two kinds of mistakes here. The estranged sibling could come too early and the patient could live on for a while. Or the estranged sibling could come too late, after the patient has died. Which mistake is worse? Therefore, if you're thinking about, Should we do x? The answer is yes. Should I make my will? Yes. Do it now. Because the consequences of error are very asymmetric. A CONVERSATION WITH: NICHOLAS CHRISTAKIS
A turning point came in January when Dr. Ginsberg met with people from Technical Assistance for Community Services, a local organization that provides resources, training and grants to nonprofit groups. On their advice, she invited doctors and administrators from several local hospital systems as well as community advocates to a meeting about the clinic. One person who attended the meeting -- the head of community relations at the Legacy Health System -- agreed on the spot to donate laboratory services. ''That was huge,'' Dr. Ginsberg said. ''Neither the clinic nor patients have to pay a dime for tests.'' Someone else at the meeting, who was in charge of the malpractice insurance program at Kaiser, agreed to sign off on insurance for the clinic's doctors. Others agreed to become board members. Dr. Ginsberg started talking with everybody she knew, and the project built momentum. Someone in her office mentioned that Kaiser had a warehouse full of used medical equipment. Kaiser agreed to let her take what she needed; with a truck from Ms. Overstreet Smith's church she picked up tables, otoscopes, file cabinets.
The study involves 3,000 Long Island women, half of whom were diagnosed with breast cancer during the same one-year period. Some participants have permitted the collection of dust, water and soil from their homes and yards. The National Cancer Institute said the study's findings would be released within the next several months. Dr. Clare B. Bradley, the commissioner of Suffolk's Department of Health Services, said the Stellman study ''doesn't close the book on these issues.'' ''It is another study that didn't show an association in that instance,'' she said. ''I am sure we will learn more from other studies moving forward.'' Suffolk County is currently preparing to seek bidders for an epidemiological study of abnormally high breast cancer rates among women under age 55 on the South Fork and in the Riverhead and Westhampton Beach areas. At the same time, the Stellman study has raised concerns among the Long Island groups about other studies, part of the Long Island breast cancer project, that have yet to be completed. ''I am starting to become very leery of these studies,'' said Geri Barish of Baldwin, the president of One in Nine, a breast cancer group. ''I only hope they are doing them in enough depth to get good results. There is something out there we are eating and ingesting. I can't believe we are this far down the road and we still haven't come up with any good answers.''
Kathleen McAuliffe writes a column on women's health for More magazine.
Dr. Jay S. Cohen, an associate professor of family and preventive medicine at the University of California at San Diego, said the Georgetown data illuminated only part of the problem. ''The findings don't include a lot of drugs whose doses should be reduced but aren't,'' he said. In his book ''Overdose'' published last year, he argued that for many people the recommended drug doses were much too high. Dosage recommendations are based on small studies done on young, healthy people, usually men, Dr. Cohen said. But people have such variability in size, shape, age and patterns of metabolizing drugs, not to mention concurrent illnesses and necessary medicines, that the notion of a single optimal treatment makes no sense, he said. About 75 percent of the serious side effects occur at recommended doses, he added. ''If a dose is reduced 7 or 10 years after the drug was first marketed,'' Dr. Cohen said, ''you wonder how many side effects, what great costs to patients and to the medical system could have been avoided.''
Babies born after couples undergo fertility treatments are more likely to have low birth weights and birth defects, researchers report today in The New England Journal of Medicine. But, medical experts said, the studies do not resolve the fundamental question of whether the increased risks result from the fertility treatments or whether they reflect infertile couples' medical problems. The birth-weight effect occurred in single babies -- but not twins, triplets or other multiples -- conceived with methods like in vitro fertilization. Researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention examined birth weights of 42,463 babies reported by fertility centers that used those methods and compared them to the weights of 3,389,098 babies in the general population, as reported on birth certificates. The researchers found that 6.5 percent of singleton babies born after fertility treatments weighed less than 5 pounds 8 ounces. Those were pregnancies that went to term, meaning that early delivery was not the cause of the low weights.
In April, the American College of Physicians published new guidelines for treating hypertension in Type 2 diabetes in the journal Annals of Internal Medicine. ''We published the guidelines, because our experience had been that when providers and patients think about diabetes, the focus is on treating glucose, since that is how diabetes is defined,'' said Dr. Sandeep Vijan, a physician-scientist with the Department of Veterans Affairs in Ann Arbor, Mich., and the author of the guidelines. ''I have to admit that before I started doing this research, I was guilty of that, too,'' Dr. Vijan said. ''Our goal was to get physicians to realize that lowering blood pressure should be the primary area of focus in treating diabetes.'' The diabetes association estimates that 60 percent of people with diabetes also have hypertension, defined as blood pressure greater than 130/80. Both diabetes and high blood pressure raise the risk of heart attack and stroke, and the combination of the two problems can be particularly lethal.
Among cardiologists, it has become a running joke: maybe the powerful drugs known as statins should be added to the water supply. Not only do statins greatly reduce cholesterol and lower mortality in people at risk for heart attacks, but some studies also suggest that they might help to prevent or treat a wide range of ailments, including Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, bone fractures, some types of cancer, macular degeneration and glaucoma. An estimated 11 million Americans take statins. With new government recommendations issued last week, millions more are likely to begin taking the drugs, and many who already take them are likely to have their dosages increased. On July 12, the National Institutes of Health, in conjunction with the American Heart Association and the American College of Cardiology, endorsed sharply lowering the desired levels of harmful cholesterol for people at moderate to high risk for heart disease. The recommendations were based on clinical trials involving more than 50,000 people.
In 2001, the Food and Drug Administration sent letters to several American researchers informing them that they would have to file an Investigational New Drug, or I.N.D., application and demonstrate the safety of the technique. Although the agency would not disclose whether any researchers had made such an application, many in vitro practitioners say they believe the effort and cost will be prohibitive. ''To file an I.N.D. for nuclear transfer would cost maybe $20 to $40 million and take 10 to 12 years,'' Dr. Marrs said. Dr. Jacques Cohen, scientific director of assisted reproduction at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J., said he was preparing to apply to the Food and Drug Administration to investigate a somewhat different strategy for helping women with persistent fertility problems. His strategy, called cytoplasmic transfer, is to inject such a woman's egg with cytoplasm from another woman's egg. Presumably the shot of cytoplasm will confer healthful and youthful properties to help make the egg more fertile.
While abortion rates have been falling generally since 1990, the decline has been steepest among teenagers, and rates are lowest among educated, financially secure women. Researchers attribute the drop in teenage abortion to reduced rates of pregnancy, as a result of better access to contraception -- including the three-month Depo-Provera injections -- and abstinence. Conversely, for poor and low-income women, rates increased during the 1990's, possibly in response to the 1996 welfare overhaul, which reduced support systems for women who carry their fetuses to term. At every income level studied by the Guttmacher Institute, African-American women were more likely to terminate their pregnancies than white women. Leah, 26, said money was a factor in her decision to have an abortion. A former college track athlete, she works in a clothing boutique, a job that she said did not pay enough to support a child. Like many women at the clinic, Leah had conflicted feelings about what she was doing. ''I always said I would never, ever have an abortion,'' she said. ''I probably will regret it. I'm pro-choice for cases of incest or rape, but if it's your own fault, you should accept responsibility. And it's my own fault.''
Dr. Gault suggested that parents adopt the attitude of a political consultant, addressing the facts honestly but spinning them in a reassuring direction. ''You want to twist it in a way that has as much of a positive bent to it as possible,'' he said. THE HUNT FOR A SNIPER: EMOTIONS
Animal studies bolstered the notion. Rodents, fed high concentrations of carcinogens in laboratory studies, were protected against colon cancer if they also ate high-fiber diets. Studies of humans, however, were inconsistent. Some showed that people who developed colon cancer or polyps ate more fat and less fiber than those who did not. But several recent studies, one involving 88,000 nurses, failed to detect any effect of diet on colorectal cancers or polyps. The problem with these studies was that they were observational: the subjects chose their diets and were simply observed. It may be that those who chose high-fiber diets happened to be different in some other way from  those who did not, and that this difference might have negated diet's  effects on their colon cancer risk. In planning the latest studies, said Dr. Arthur Schatzkin, chief of the nutritional epidemiology branch at the cancer institute, ''we had high expectations and good rationale.'' But, he said, ''we got absolutely null results.''
Since then, Dr. Abramson has become something of an activist against the lunches and gifts that the pharmaceutical industry dispenses to doctors. His gastroenterology group in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, accepts neither, he said. The leading compiler and vendor of prescription data is IMS Health, a publicly traded company based in Fairfield, Conn., that had revenue last year of $1.75 billion. IMS and its competitors gather the data through contracts with retail pharmacy chains and companies that manage drug plans for insurers, then sell it to pharmaceutical companies. IMS and its competitors -- the main ones are Verispan, Dendrite International and a Dutch company, Wolters Kluwer -- also pay the A.M.A. for access to its repository of information on approximately one million doctors who are graduates of American medical schools, as well as foreign medical school graduates licensed in the United States. The A.M.A., which calls this repository Masterfile, begins collecting the information when a doctor enters medical school. Over doctors' careers, additional material includes information on their board certifications, types of practice and disciplinary records. The Masterfile information is among data that companies like IMS use in developing physician profiles.
Yet doctors like Dr. Eric Braverman, director of PATH Medical, a center for integrative medicine in New York, defend the use of HGH at low, carefully supervised levels. One of his patients, an 82-year-old retired executive from Long Island, who requested anonymity for privacy reasons, said that daily HGH injections over the last 13 months had repaired some of the damage he incurred from congestive heart failure and overmedication for high-blood pressure. ''I can't walk fast, but I can walk 40 blocks now with no trouble,'' he said. ''I've had virtually no side-effects.'' Dr. Braverman predicts that HGH will become more widely prescribed. ''I am convinced that it is a core dimension in dealing with the effects of aging,'' he said. ''I have hundreds of patients with experience, and it's rare that they have side-effects. The real danger is that these things are being sold over the Internet.'' On that issue, both sides agree.
Consistent with this view, Dr. Flier finds that leptin levels drop when people are losing weight. If so, there is still hope for leptin as a drug to keep people thin once they have lost weight, possibly resetting the lower bound of a person's natural weight range and solving the fundamental problem of weight loss programs, recidivism. Meanwhile, scientists are using leptin as a key to unlocking the entire brain pathway that controls appetite, finding dozens of molecules in the brain that may be new candidates for obesity drugs. Reason for Optimism? Of course, researchers caution, laboratory excitement often does not translate into success in the clinic. But, said Dr. Elfetheria Maratos-Flier, an obesity researcher at the Joslin Diabetes Center in Boston, there is good reason to be optimistic about the findings. All the new research points to the conclusion that obesity is a hormonal problem resulting from too little or too much of molecules like leptin or molecules that are linked to it in elaborate paths and that signal the body to eat or abstain.
Some hospital administrators said they did not have enough money or employees to comply with all the federal requirements. Doctors at veterans' hospitals have done pioneering research on spinal cord injuries and schizophrenia, helped develop the implantable cardiac pacemaker and the nicotine patch, and performed some of the first successful liver transplants. The agency has also been a leader in analyzing medical errors. But officials at those hospital now say they are reluctant to discuss possible improprieties because they fear being sued. Jayne M. Steubing, the widow of the Albany patient, Carl Steubing, sued last month, asserting that researchers had falsified test results and improperly enrolled him in the trial of a cancer drug, hastening his death from stomach cancer. ''Our whole purpose is to ensure that this kind of thing does not happen to other people,'' Mrs. Steubing said in an interview. Investigators said the Detroit patient, Cyril V. Krcmarik, died after a series of medical errors.
But, some ask, how can an honest message be communicated to the public about what can be done? ''I am concerned,'' said Dr. Donald Berry, a statistician at M. D. Anderson. ''Most of what this is about is research. I think we're really early on in the cancer prevention area. Knowing what to do, knowing what the risk factors are and knowing when to intervene and how to intervene -- we're not there yet.'' He and others worry that many people greatly exaggerate their cancer risk and have inflated expectations of what science can do to protect them. ''We created the fear that everything is carcinogenic,'' said Dr. Michael Gallo, associate director for cancer prevention and control at the Cancer Institute at the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School. At the same time, he added, medical researchers ''have convinced people that there is a magic bullet for everything.'' The result, he said, ''is self-defeating.''
''Until we hear differently from the F.D.A., we would assume that theirs are the regulations we need to follow,'' said Alex Trent, acting director of Salmon of the Americas, an organization of 80 salmon farmers in the United States, Canada and Chile. ''We assume they know what they are doing, and the regulations and levels they have promulgated mean that the food, including farmed salmon, is safe, wholesome and nutritious. E.P.A. and F.D.A. should work their differences out.'' A high-level E.P.A. staff member said the environmental agency's recommendations ''reflect the best science available to make recommendations to states for setting fish advisories.'' The guidelines will continue to be used, he said.'' Kimberly Rawlings, a press officer for the Food and Drug Administration, said the F.D.A. was considering updating its guidelines. ''We are clearly aware of it and actively looking at the science to see if the science dictates that it needs to be changed,'' she said.
The relationship -- rising costs bringing increased benefits -- has broken down recently. From 1996 to 2002, Medicare spending on treatments for heart attack victims increased about 14 percent, after inflation. But there was virtually no improvement in survival rates. There is mounting evidence that the zeal to treat and spend may actually hurt patients. The study by Mr. Skinner, Mr. Staiger and Dr. Fisher found that hospitals in regions where spending grew fastest from 1986 to 2002 had some of the worst practices, in terms of providing tried-and-true therapies, and recorded the smallest gains in survival rates. Treatment of heart disease underscores the deeply idiosyncratic nature of many choices made by America's doctors and hospitals. Coupled with a fee-for-service system that encourages aggressive treatment, these choices stimulate health spending that provides little benefit to patients. ''A lot of the innovation and spending growth are going into gray areas that are not helping people that much,'' Mr. Skinner said.
Dr. Thompson has the P.S.A. test himself. Dr. Eric J. Feuer, a statistician at the National Cancer Institute, cautioned that it could be difficult to interpret national cancer data because many factors influenced the figures. In breast cancer, the incidence has risen consistently and steadily, independent of mammography, about 1 percent a year. In fact, Dr. Feuer said, the increase apparently began in the 1940's, long before mammography was introduced. But it complicates attempts to interpret trends in incidence rates. Attempts to interpret mortality rates are complicated by the fact that cancer treatment has been changing and improving over the years. Dr. Norton said it would be a mistake to write off cancer screening in general because of fears of overdiagnosis. For now, he said, early diagnosis may be the only way to cure some cancers. Dr. Norton said that with mammography, at least, the test was finding tumors so early that the combination of early diagnosis and improved treatment had led to a 10 percent drop in the death rate since the early 90's.
Emily Bazelon is a senior editor at Slate.
In an interview, Dr. Buxton said that he worried about the high cost of the devices, which with surgery and the required follow-up care can reach $50,000 for each patient. ''It's an extremely expensive and invasive therapy,'' Dr. Buxton said. ''We need a lot more data.''
The findings add to increasing evidence that attention to patients' psychological needs can play an important role in the treatment of many physical illnesses, a view shared by many doctors and nurses but one that has only recently begun to draw the attention of the medical establishment. In an editorial accompanying the journal report, Dr. David Spiegel, professor and associate chairman of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Stanford University, writes, ''We have been closet Cartesians in modern medicine, treating the mind as though it were reactive to but otherwise disconnected from disease in the body.'' The patients in the ''treatment'' group were instructed to write down their ''deepest thoughts and feelings'' about the traumatic experience, while control subjects wrote about their plans for the day. Subjects in both groups were instructed to write continuously for 20 minutes. ''This is not an easy task,'' said Dr. Joshua Smyth, an assistant professor of psychology at North Dakota State University and the lead author of the study. ''The time goes very quickly and you feel there's a lot more to say.''
''What made sense to me was to bring in the air force and bomb the hell out of the tumors and weaken them,'' Ms. Gaines said. ''Then go in with the infantry. And so I decided to do surgery plus chemo, not just chemo.'' As it happened, the Los Angeles surgeon found only one big tumor. The others, which had earlier scared off the liver surgeon in Wisconsin, were just blood density irregularities and benign cysts. Eighteen months after Ms. Gaines's cancer was detected, she returned to her job, teaching criminal law and supervising students defending prisoners. The job was the same, but she had changed. Over the next few years, Ms. Gaines did a lot of thinking and a lot of talking about her experience as a patient, about how brutally difficult it had been to gather information, find doctors and make decisions. She helped found the Center for Patient Partnerships, which opened in 2001, based at the law school of the University of Wisconsin-Madison. It helps patients with cancer and other serious illnesses finddoctors and make informed decisions, even as it trains student volunteers from disciplines like law, business, public policy and medicine how to be advocates for patients.
How did such diffidence, antithetical to the surgical ethic, arise in the pursuit of quality improvement? When did surgeons start becoming afraid of sick people? To answer this, it is necessary to go back to the late 80's, the dawn of what Dr. Arnold Relman, former editor of The New England Journal of Medicine, called ''the era of assessment and accountability'' in medicine. It was a period when concepts like ''total-quality management'' and ''continuous-quality improvement'' (modeled after the Japanese management strategy of kaizen) were diffusing throughout the corporate world. People decided that it was time to start applying these concepts to medicine. Cardiac surgery was chosen as the prototype for this ''outcomes research'' because the data are plentiful -- more than 500,000 coronary-bypass operations are performed each year -- and patient follow-up is good. Several programs were begun during this period. The Health Care Financing Administration, a federal agency, and several states developed systems to keep track of patient outcomes. In the early 90's, New York and Pennsylvania started publishing mortality statistics on hospitals and surgeons performing coronary-bypass surgery. (Although this data had been collected for years, it had never been released to the public.) Hospitals at first submitted pseudonyms, until the states forced them to use surgeons' real names. Soon the statistics appeared in newspapers and on the Internet.
''When you are trying to do research, you look for every advantage you can,'' he said. ''Some embryonic stem cell lines make particular tissues better than others.'' Some, for example, might more easily turn into blood cells, and others might more easily grow into nerve cells, but there is no way to know whether there is a better stem cell line for a particular cell type without trying as many as possible, Dr. Zon said. ''You would want to find the line that makes the tissue you are studying.'' An Embryo by Cloning Across the river in Cambridge, in the basement of a biology building on Harvard's campus, a small group of scientists works in a two-room lab on the site of a former machine shop. Among their goals is to plunge into one of the most controversial areas of stem cell research -- creating human embryos by cloning and obtaining stem cells from those embryos.
Foundation representatives said the board approved almost $5 million in initial grants at its October meeting. Ultimately, they said, the foundation would spend about a third of its estimated $50 million in grants each year on combatting bioweapons and bioterrorism. ''Reducing the threat of biological weapons has always been our primary mission, but the events of Sept. 11 have led to new opportunities to address preparedness and consequence management,'' said Margaret A. Hamburg, a former assistant secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services in the Clinton administration who heads the foundation's biological projects. The new grants, which the foundation's representatives discussed in interviews, involve both foreign and domestic threats and private and public partnerships. The largest category is about $2.4 million in initial grants to finance scientific collaboration with scientists who once worked in the former Soviet Union's covert biological weapons program. The investment supplements federal efforts to help Soviet scientists who once made biological weapons find peaceful employment working with American scientists on antidotes for those weapons.
Examining information on illnesses in marathons since 1985, Dr. Martin and Dr. Tim Noakes of the University in Cape Town in South Africa, write in the advisory statement, ''It has been difficult to find any studies in which dehydration has been identified as the sole important causative factor in even a single case of exercise-related heatstroke.'' But they reported that they found 70 cases of severe hyponatremia. Many start the race overhydrated, having fallen for what Dr. Heinz Valtin, a physiologist at Dartmouth Medical College, deems a medical myth: that dehydration is always lurking and must be fended off with more or less constant sipping of water. In a paper published in November in The American Journal of Physiology, he said he could find no scientific support for the common advice for healthy adults to drink at least eight glasses of water a day and that the benefits that have been claimed -- weight loss, relief of constipation, less fatigue, increased alertness and so on -- have no foundation in rigorous studies. ''In my opinion, the vast majority of healthy people do not need that much water,'' he said.
Op-Ed Contributor Mark Derr is author of the forthcoming ''A Dog's History of America.''
In the last year or so, some, but by no means all, of Marion Vuchetich's determination to clone Matthew has subsided. Sometimes she thinks saving Matt's cells was just a sensible thing to do for other people in the family -- maybe someday a donor organ could be cloned from them. But she has kept up with cloning research by staying in touch with experts like Gregory Pence, a professor of ethics at the University of Alabama at Birmingham and an advocate of cloning. ''Marion knows this wouldn't be Matthew exactly,'' said Pence, who gets about ''a call a month'' from people hoping to replicate a dead loved one. ''She just wants something back. And who am I to tell her that's the wrong thing for her? A lot of people believe in the theory of the proper way to grieve -- Kbler-Ross's stages, that sort of thing. But in practice, heterosexual couples have replacement children all the time. They have a stillborn baby; the woman gets pregnant again right away. But when somebody wants to use cloning for the same purpose, they're criticized.''
''Do you want your employees calling and saying, 'You're denying my family the latest cancer care?' '' Dr. Miller said. ''Until the payor community'' -- that is, companies that provide health insurance -- ''develops the appetite to be more aggressive, it would be irresponsible for us to press them on it,'' he added. But Dr. John C. Hornberger, a senior research associate at the Sphere Institute, a nonprofit health and public policy group in Burlingame, Calif., says employers are wary of interfering in medical decision-making by their employees. ''They want to control costs,'' he said, ''but they don't want to be involved.'' Carol Austin-Fink, who learned last year that she had cancer in her right breast, insisted on taking Abraxane after she received the diagnosis because the chemotherapy she received in 1996 for a different cancer in her left breast had caused severe side effects. The earlier treatment did not include Taxol, so she had no idea whether Taxol would cause problems for her, but she did not want to take the chance.
To date, only three women have banked eggs with Extend -- including Ms. Drake and Ms. Jones, who has 12 eggs on ice -- but many more say they are ready to go through the process. Not surprisingly, the biggest interest has been in urban locations where, typically, more women are in the work force and consequently may be delaying marriage and children. Even before the official announcement that Extend was going into partnership with RMA of New York, a fertility clinic on Manhattan's Upper East Side, 20 percent of calls to the company's main number were inquiries from women in the New York area. It seems only fair that single women should have the option of starting their own fertility savings accounts. After all, men have been able to bank their sperm for decades. And couples going through in vitro fertilization routinely freeze embryos for future pregnancy attempts. But egg freezing has yet to become widespread because, while sperm and embryos freeze fairly easily, eggs are much more fragile. Egg cells contain a lot of water, said Dr. Owen Davis, president of the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology. As a result, he said, ice crystals can form that may damage the egg's structure.
And to add a little spice, there are the Raelians, members of a religious cult who believe the first humans were cloned by space aliens 25,000 years ago and who have taken on human cloning as a sacred mission. According to their chief scientist, Brigitte Boisselier, the Raelians now have five clone pregnancies under way, the first of which is to be delivered by the end of this month. These claims, of course, raise all sorts of ethical, moral, religious and societal questions about whether we dare allow such a step. So it might help us to realize that we have been here before. One of the first steps on the slippery slope that got us here was the one we took a generation ago, when scientists developed the technique of in-vitro fertilization. Opponents warned then that in-vitro fertilization would lead to cloning -- that without the ability to fertilize human eggs in a petri dish, and to culture them to the stage at which they are ready to implant into a womb, cloning would not be possible. So this is the development we were warned about 30 years ago, and it seems to be about to come to pass.
Men who have been screened for prostate cancer by the most commonly used tests have no greater chance of surviving the disease than those who have not been screened at all, new research has found. A report on the research, published yesterday in The Archives of Internal Medicine, found that neither a prostate specific antigen test, known as a P.S.A., nor a rectal examination worked to reduce deaths from prostate cancer. The value of the screening has long been a matter of debate. A P.S.A. level can be abnormal even when a man does not have prostate cancer. But when an abnormal P.S.A. level is discovered, typically the next step is a biopsy. Even a biopsy is inconclusive, however. The tissue samples from a negative screening, for example, may by chance have come from parts of the prostate that are free of cancerous cells. Even if a cancer is found, an operation, which often causes erectile dysfunction and incontinence as side effects, may not be necessary since many cancers are so slow growing that they will never cause a problem.
Dr. McClellan accepted an offer from Stanford, becoming an associate professor of both economics and medicine. While there he was a deputy assistant secretary of the treasury in the Clinton administration and, when George W. Bush was elected, became a member of the President's Council of Economic Advisers. After the election in 2000, Dr. McClellan's youngest brother, Scott, who had run their mother's successful campaign for Texas comptroller, was hired by President Bush to be White House deputy press secretary. Last fall, Mr. Bush nominated Dr. McClellan to be commissioner of the F.D.A. Mr. Bush had been trying for more than a year to fill the job, but his two proposed candidates withdrew because they faced opposition in the Senate. Dr. McClellan sailed through his Senate confirmation hearing and was confirmed with a unanimous vote. As he rattles through the day with plan after plan, the question now is what will be the end results.
The diet revolves around the glycemic index -- the amount that a carbohydrate increases sugar in the blood compared with the amount that the same quantity of white bread raises it. The concept of the index as crucial to weight gain or loss has been around since the early 1980's, when it was used to help people with diabetes choose proper diets. But skeptics -- including the American Diabetes Association, which has not endorsed the index -- say a food's glycemic index fluctuates depending on how much is eaten and what other foods are eaten. Foods with a low glycemic index, like lentils, soy milk and low-fat, artificially sweetened yogurt, do not raise blood sugar as quickly and sharply as high-numbered items like gnocchi, baked potatoes and pretzels. High-glycemic-index foods cause the body to release a lot of insulin, which quickly lowers the blood sugar again and causes hunger to recur, the theory goes. Those with low indexes break down into sugar more slowly, for longer-term energy.
Because the advantage of letrozole on disease-free survival was apparent early on, the researchers had to halt the study. Dr. James N. Ingle of the Mayo Clinic and a principal investigator in the study said he was surprised by the criticism over ending the study. ''Preventing disease recurrence is a valid endpoint,'' he said. ''If you sit down with patients, they will tell you that they don't want their cancer to come back. That's their first concern. ''In fact, I can't think of a study of breast cancer where actual survival is the primary endpoint. Disease-free survival is a well-accepted outcome with strong precedence in cancer research.'' But to some researchers, the study stopped short of answering important questions. Does letrozole promote actual survival? What are its long-term adverse effects? How long should women continue to take it? The results, for example, suggest a slight increase in osteoporosis in women taking letrozole compared with a placebo. So, other side effects may emerge over time.
When people are malnourished, their skin can become gray, scaly or patchy. Some skin and hair problems are directly linked to vitamin deficiency diseases. Among the first signs of a vitamin A deficiency, for example, are dry skin, dry hair and broken fingernails. But some dermatologists -- at least those not peddling their own supplements -- consider the pills a waste of money, even harmful if taken in large amounts. And some nutritionists question them, too. ''Taking a beauty pill won't help with crow's feet or saggy baggy skin,'' Ms. Heller said. Cosmetics makers say science is on their side. Some studies have indicated, for example, the antioxidant vitamins C and E may protect against sun damage. And Kristopher Trust, the product manager for Olay, says that his company's formulations are based on 130 studies looking at various cosmetic effects of vitamins and nutrients. But Dr. David R. Bickers, the director of the Skin Diseases Research Center at Columbia University Medical Center, said most such studies have been done on animals or skin cultures rather than on people. ''The claims of the cosmetics companies are really just an exercise in hypothetical thinking,'' Dr. Bickers said.
''A lot of people who are having a heart attack present with indigestion,'' Dr. Thompson said. ''If you are having heartburn, especially with exertion, that makes me worry.'' He explained that the nerves at the top of the stomach go to both the heart and the stomach. ''They don't call it heartburn for nothing,'' he said. The key to staying away from doctors is to have a doctor you can rely on and talk to, Dr. Hadler said. He advises asking the doctor, ''Is it likely you can change the healing rate?'' And, he said, if you learn that the condition is likely to go away on its own, with or without treatment, there is just one logical response: ''I'm out of here.'' LIMITS OF MEDICINE
Ovarian cancer most often strikes postmenopausal women who are over 50. Women with one or more first-degree relatives, that is, mother, sister or aunt, who have had the disease are at slightly greater risk. It is equally likely to be transmitted from the father's side as from the mother's, said Dr. Beth Karlan, the director of gynecologic oncology at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. Women with a history of breast cancer are also at higher risk. ''The first step for women is to find out their own family history and discuss it with their physician,'' Dr. Karlan said. She recommended that women who are unsure about their families' medical histories complete the cancer risk assessment survey on the Web site for the Women's Cancer Network (www.wcn.org), which helps give women a sense of their own risk for various cancers. Some experts think that women who take fertility drugs, like Clomid and Pergonal, which stimulate the ovaries, may be more susceptible to ovarian cancer, because the more often a woman ovulates, the more she is at risk for ovarian abnormalities in general. This may also explain why women who have given birth more than once, or who use oral contraceptives, are much less likely to develop the disease. Indeed, some doctors prescribe the Pill to high-risk patients as a preventive measure.
Inflammation had been a suspect as early as the mid-1800's, when Dr. Rudolph Virchow, a German pathologist, suggested that injured and inflamed arteries might cause heart attacks. The idea was revived, briefly, in the mid-20th century, but was little noticed as doctors focused on low-fat diets and cholesterol-reducing drugs. The cholesterol therapies were effective -- but still, half of all heart attacks and strokes were happening in people with normal cholesterol levels. By the 1980's, cardiologists were re-examining inflammation. For example, Dr. Libby took cells from the arteries of rabbits and irritated them with a bacterial toxin. Sure enough, the artery cells began releasing proteins called cytokines, which promote inflammation. Gradually, researchers put together a new narrative for heart attacks and strokes: immune-system cells that cause inflammation burrow into the artery wall and begin gobbling up droplets of fat. These fat-filled cells form a plaque and inflammation thins its fibrous cap. Eventually, the cap ruptures, and the plaque's contents spill into the bloodstream -- along with pro-inflammatory cytokines, which encourage clotting. Suddenly, the artery fills with a cloud of rapidly coagulating blood cells. If the cloud is large enough, it forms a clot that blocks the artery and causes a heart attack or stroke.
This particular immunization, he and others cautioned, is obviously not suitable for further study in patients. Wyeth and Elan are back in the clinic with what they hope will be a safer way to immunize. But for now, Dr. Wilkinson said, ''we are a long way from a cure.'' Nonetheless, he sees himself as an Alzheimer's optimist. ''I think we will see a big, big reduction in Alzheimer's,'' Dr. Wilkinson said. ''People shouldn't be so downbeat.'' The Long Goodbye The first article in this series examined treatments for Alzheimer's disease. Later articles will chronicle progression of the disease and effects on the families. The articles will remain online at nytimes.com/health.
Besides, the clinical trials of mifepristone in the United States have helped generate interest in the drug that may prove hard to squelch, especially since women reported such high levels of satisfaction with it. In the Population Council trial, which ended in 1995, 88 percent of the 2,121 women who took mifepristone said they found the pill very or moderately satisfactory, while 96 percent said they would recommend it to friends or relatives. Even among women for whom the method failed -- they ended up having to get vacuum aspirations -- mifepristone proved surprisingly acceptable: 70 percent of them said they would try it again if they had to have an abortion. Just as important, the promise of RU-486, and even the delays in bringing it here, have already helped shift the focus of many doctors and pro-choice activists alike to earlier abortion, pushing clinicians to reconsider the seven- or eight-week threshold at which many of them would do surgical abortions. Over the last few years, clinics across the country have begun employing manual vacuum aspiration earlier than they have traditionally performed abortions -- in some places as early as four or even three weeks after a woman's last period. Combine this with the availability of emergency contraception -- which can work up to 72 hours after unprotected intercourse, either to block ovulation, to thwart fertilization or to prevent a fertilized egg from implanting itself in the wall of the uterus -- and you close the gap between the time a woman knows or suspects she is carrying an unwanted pregnancy and the time she can end it.
Next, I meet with Jennifer, five days after her Microsort insemination. The last leg of ''Conception Tour 1999'' swings her near my house, so I take my younger son, she takes her two sons and we meet for gooey desserts. The actual procedure, she says, was ''radical.'' It took all day for the machine to sort the sperm, and it was not until early evening that a technician came in with an ice chest. He took out a test tube with her husband's name on it and the words ''X Sort.'' Then the nurse practitioner used ultrasound to locate the tip of the uterus, inserted a catheter and pushed the plunger. Staring at the computer screen, Jennifer watched the cloud of sperm race upward. ''Other than seeing the faces of my children before they were born,'' she says, ''I have never seen anything like it.'' We slurp chocolate for a while, I more enthusiastically than she because she is already nauseated (and will learn, 10 days later, that she is in fact pregnant). Eventually she looks up from a spoonful of whipped cream and asks, ''So, are you going to do it?'' The question, although obvious, takes me by surprise. I know the answer. It's just that I haven't spoken it aloud to anyone yet.
The alarm began when Bobbie and William Gallagher, who have two autistic children, noticed that there appeared to be many other children in their town with the same disorder. After some amateur epidemiological canvassing of their own, the Gallaghers and some of their friends with autistic children persuaded Federal authorities that an investigation was warranted. A few years ago, it would have been unlikely that these parents would have got such a prompt and attentive hearing from state and Federal officials. But the belief that clusters of cases of cancer and other illnesses might be caused by something in a community's air or water or soil is a recent phenomenon that has quickly developed the power to arouse both panic among people and action on the part of politicians -- although there is no scientific evidence that such clusters are anything more than statistical flukes. Although autism had never before been linked to environmental causes, fears were easily roused here partly because this part of New Jersey has many toxic waste sites that the state and Federal governments ordered cleaned up. In nearby Toms River, parents of children with cancer persuaded state health officials to conduct a comprehensive environmental study of Dover Township, which includes their town, to see whether these cases were somehow connected. The study is continuing.
Ms. Bunting says she has seen a big difference in the children since the school began the program last year. ''I didn't expect to have so much positive student participation and response,'' she said. ''The kids come to me in the morning and describe how they looked at a food label last night and showed it to their parents. Now the moms are saying things like, 'Hey, thanks, Wednesday, was my double Whataburger night and now we can't go there anymore.' ''
Of the men who were H.I.V.-positive, 38 percent suffered from peripheral lipoatrophy, compared with 5 percent of the people in the control group. The drugs associated with the weight loss were indinavir, the generic name for Crixivan, and stavudine, also known as d4T, an earlier H.I.V. drug. In addition, only 40 percent of the participants infected with H.I.V. experienced significant weight gain around the trunk, compared with 56 percent of the control group. And H.I.V.-positive men who had weight loss in their extremities were more likely to have lost weight in their stomachs and elsewhere than they were to have gained it. Dr. Carl Grunfeld, the study's principal investigator and a professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, said the abdominal weight gain seen in many H.I.V. patients receiving treatment was probably related to improved health as well as aging. He acknowledged that the paunch could appear abnormal but said it was because of the weight loss in the extremities.
They foresee that these dressings will be carried not only by ambulances, but also in police cars, fire trucks and other emergency vehicles that arrive first on trauma scenes, and potentially placed in first aid kits in remote locations to be used before medical help arrives. ''Fifty thousand people in the United States bleed to death per year, 30,000 in hospitals and 20,000 in the streets,'' said Dr. William Drohan, director of the plasma development branch of the Red Cross's Jerome H. Holland Laboratory for the Biomedical Sciences in Rockville, Md. ''We think we can make a difference in this with something very simple, something so practical it could be available and used almost anywhere.'' The military interest in an improved field bandage is also obvious, Dr. Drohan said. Of the soldiers who die on the battlefield, 50 percent bleed to death, he said, and having soldiers carry clotting bandages as part of their gear could increase their chances of survival.
Some men take an alpha blocker, then add finasteride, and still find their symptoms intolerable. For them, the only thing left is to remove the interior of the prostate gland. Doctors can do this in their offices, with a variety of methods that use radio-frequency energy to essentially burn and destroy the tissue. The complications are a 10 to 30 percent chance that a man will be unable to urinate for a day or so afterward, requiring a catheter, and about a 50 percent chance that he will experience short-term symptoms, including a burning sensation when he urinates and an increased frequency of urination. The question hanging over this expensive treatment -- it can cost $3,000 to $6,000, Dr. McConnell said -- is its long-term outcome. ''There is not a single, well-designed long-term study that demonstrates five-year success rates,'' he said. Finally, there is an operation, with a surgeon removing the tissue in the prostate.
According to a report by the Rand Corporation, such a drug would be among the most cost-effective breakthroughs possible in medicine, providing Americans more healthy years at less expense (an estimated $8,800 a year) than new cancer vaccines or stroke treatments. ''The effects are global, so calorie restriction has the potential to help us identify anti-aging mechanisms throughout the body,'' said Richard Weindruch, a gerontologist at the University of Wisconsin who directs research on the monkeys. Many scientists regard the study of life extension, once just a reliable plotline in science fiction, as a national priority. The number of Americans 65 and older will double in the next 25 years to about 72 million, according to government census data. By then, seniors will account for nearly 20 percent of the population, up from just 12 percent in 2003. Earlier this year, four prominent gerontologists, among them Dr. Miller, published a paper calling for the government to spend $3 billion annually in pursuit of a modest goal: delaying the onset of age-related diseases by seven years.
She had the tube inserted. Many others make that choice too. Randy Bryant of Taylorsville, N.C., chose a feeding tube for his mother, Hattie Kuykendall, 89, who has advanced Alzheimer's disease and lives in a nursing home nearby. He didn't hesitate, he said, when his mother had trouble swallowing, began aspirating food into her lungs and developed pneumonia. ''With a lot of people, it's an easy decision to just let people go ahead and pass away,'' Mr. Bryant said. ''When it's your mother, you can't do that. Would you let your mom die?'' In other families, there is an unspoken concern that if they halt treatment, they will be judged -- by their friends, others in the family or their churches. ''That's a major barrier,'' said Dr. Meier of Mount Sinai. ''Will people accuse me of having killed my mother or not being a caring daughter?'' As a result, each illness is often viewed by family members and doctors as an isolated problem with a potential solution, said Dr. R. Sean Morrison, a professor of palliative care at Mount Sinai.
Government officials had estimated that as many as 150,000 additional Medicare patients each year would qualify for the devices if the government followed the industry's recommendation. They said that they thought, however, that only about 30,000 people would have opted for the procedures. A panel of doctors convened by Medicare officials voted unanimously in February in favor of the government's adopting the companies' recommendation. But some doctors have raised questions about the companies' proposal. Dr. Alfred E. Buxton, a professor of medicine at Brown University School of Medicine and director of arrhythmia services at Lifespan Academic Medical Center, wrote an editorial in The Annals of Internal Medicine in March saying that it would be premature to expand the use of the devices based on Guidant's trial results because the study had several flaws. For example, he said, the patients were only followed for about 20 months -- not long enough to determine that they would continue to benefit.
In the past few weeks, we've been treated to a familiar spectacle: scientists trying to nudge one another out of the way as they race toward something the rest of society considers beyond the pale. In this case, they're racing to produce the world's first human clone. A few years ago, such a contest would have seemed preposterous. But now, three different groups say they have clones in the making. Severino Antinori, an Italian fertility doctor, says his clone will be born first. Dr. Antinori, who became famous in 1994 for helping a 62-year-old woman become pregnant by implanting a donor's fertilized egg in her uterus, says he has a clone pregnancy under way in an undisclosed country. The clone, he says, is a boy, due in early January. Panayiotis Michael Zavos in Kentucky, Dr. Antinori's onetime partner and now his bitter enemy, says he does not believe Dr. Antinori, and anyway he is working on something even better. Dr. Zavos, an embryologist, says he has collected cells from seven people who want to be cloned, and in the first two weeks of January he will insert the cells' nuclei into donated human eggs from which nuclei have been removed. He promises that, unlike his rival, he will offer DNA evidence that each of the babies born of this adventure is an exact genetic replica of its parent.
The competition, some executives acknowledge, fuels duplication of services. ''You have to stay in the race; you have to do it,'' said Ben Moore III, executive director of the University Hospital in Syracuse. State officials have been studying some of these concerns. But because the activities of doctors are largely outside the state health department's purview, regulators do not even know how many M.R.I. machines there are in New York. ''We recognize that is, was and will continue to be an issue that we need to deal with and the health care system in New York needs to deal with,'' said Wayne Osten, a state health official. As part of a review of the state's Medicaid system ordered by Gov. George E. Pataki, a working group has begun looking at the migration of services from hospitals to outpatient centers and doctor's offices. But radiologists and others are also troubled by the potential conflict that arises when doctors make money from every test they recommend. Radiologists perform scans on referrals from other doctors.
Now, still on medication over 18 months later, Mrs. Lipson applauds her foresight in signing up for this deluxe model of medical care. The yearly expense, she points out, is far smaller than more traditional luxuries like cruises or late-model cars. ''I highly recommend it,'' she said. ''It's well worth the money.'' More Money, More Attention Anyone searching the country for a group of patients who are perfectly happy with their medical care, neither brutalized by the system nor fearful that the onset of a serious illness will plunge them into a morass of confusion and neglect, need look no farther than Dr. Kaminetsky's waiting room here in Boca Raton. Not that the waiting room usually has anyone in it. One promise made to patients paying for concierge service is that waiting will not be a part of their health care experience. Patients are guaranteed that phone calls will be returned promptly, appointments will be scheduled on a same-day basis if necessary, and appointment times will be honored. A bowl of fruit salad and platters of bagels and sponge cake set out for patients in the waiting room can go barely touched over the course of a day, and the television often plays to an empty couch.
Many of Sloan-Kettering's most prominent doctors will help oversee the development of the center, and patients whose cancers are diagnosed there may be referred to Sloan-Kettering for drug trials or other treatments, something that many Harlem patients can ill afford and know little about. The move may reflect Dr. Varmus's interest in applying more of the hospital's research toward clinical care for a broader swath of patients. Easy access to good care is crucial to early diagnoses of cancer, both doctors said. Late detection is the No. 1 reason that people die from treatable forms of cancer, and studies have shown that many forms of cancer are detected later in blacks than in whites. For instance, in a 20-year study of more than 700 women in Harlem that ended in 1986, only 30 percent had survived breast cancer five years after diagnosis, compared with national rates closer to 65 percent, Dr. Freeman said. Looked at another way, the study found that only 6 percent of the women had early-stage, or the most treatable, cancers. Since the center's inception, that rate has risen to 40 percent, Dr. Freeman said.
The power of a doctor's pronouncements is profound. When a doctor takes a blunt-is-best approach, enumerating side effects and dim statistics, in essence offering a hopeless prognosis, patients experience despair. A radiation oncologist told Minna Immerman's husband, who had brain cancer, that he had less than two years to live. ''That information was paralyzing,'' Mrs. Immerman said. ''It wasn't helpful.'' But when a doctor suggests that an exhausted patient try yet another therapy, in the hope that it may extend survival by weeks, the cost is also considerable -- financially, physically and emotionally. ''We have to find a less toxic way to manage their hope,'' said Dr. Nicholas A. Christakis, an internist and Harvard professor who is writing a textbook about prognosis. Efforts are being made across the medical community to grapple with the language and ethics of hope. Some medical schools pair students with end-stage disease patients so students can learn about anguish and compassion.
For now, medical experts said, the nation is poised at a critical moment when a decision on how to proceed can reverberate for years to come. ''Certainly, there is no question that spiral CT is a promising technology,'' said Dr. Paul S. Frame, a family practitioner in Cohocton, N.Y., who is reviewing the scanner as a member of the United States Preventive Services Task Force, which makes recommendations on screenings. ''But the fear and the caution is that our society is geared to like miracles. And when somebody mentions a miracle, nobody wants to wait around and see if it's true. That's the dilemma we're in.''
Landis officially arrived in that gray area on Nov. 19, 2004, after he came to Kay complaining of deep hip pain. ''Just the fact that he admitted he was in pain meant in my mind that this was serious,'' Kay recalls. ''I saw the X-ray and felt sick to my stomach.'' It wasn't a complete surprise. Landis and Kay had been dealing with this hip since January 2003, when Landis fractured it in a crash. But since July of that year, the story line had been his gutty, two-surgery comeback to help his U.S. Postal Service teammate Armstrong win the 2003 Tour de France. Seemingly fully recovered, Landis had followed it up with a breakout 2004 season that saw him join the top ranks of the sport. But that story ended with the radiologist's blunt report: advanced osteonecrosis, 25 to 50 percent femoral head collapse, with superimposed osteoarthritis. It was a textbook case: cut off from the blood supply, the femoral head was withering into a cauliflower-shaped knob that was already grating away at the remaining cartilage.
The American Academy of Anti-Aging Medicine, an advocacy group that says it has more than 17,000 doctor members, wrote a response on its Web site: ''At no time has Congress evinced any intent to restrict ethical physicians from prescribing HGH to mature or elderly adults for medical reasons within their sound judgment.'' Amid the crossfire, most mainstream doctors advise caution. Dr. Takahashi wrote an article for the Mayo Clinic's Web site outlining the risks and approved uses of HGH, concluding that ''more study is needed.'' Conservative approaches to HGH therapy are being influenced by an evolution of thought on estrogen replacement therapy, Dr. Takahashi said. Once viewed as a remedy for postmenopausal changes, estrogen is now linked to increased cancer risk. ''We learned a lot from that experience,'' he said. ''It's possible that human growth hormone could allow people to be a little bit better for a little bit longer. The question is, at what price? I think it could be a pretty high price.''
Again, the diabetes subsided. But her doctor cautioned her that if she did not diet and exercise, she might acquire permanent Type 2 diabetes. In May 2004, after fitful progress, that's what happened. She is now 32, a sprightly woman with dark hair knotted in a ponytail who lives in the South Bronx and peddles fruit salads in the summers. She takes pills and insulin, and sometimes finds herself dizzy. Though she winnowed her weight down to 180, she has put on five pounds in the past month. ''I know,'' Ms. Reyes said sheepishly, ''too much.'' Her doctors have advised her that she needs to keep an eye on her son, whose weight is now normal. ''I know,'' she said. ''I worry.'' The dimensions of gestational diabetes are imprecise, and there is considerable disagreement about how vigorously to treat it, especially milder cases, and how much difference treatment makes. The disorder is not tracked regularly in the city or nation. Estimates are rooted in scattered studies. In its first attempt to measure the problem, the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, in a paper last September in the American Journal of Public Health, said that a review of births between 1990 and 2001 found that the prevalence had leapt to 3.8 percent, or about 4,200 pregnant women in 2001, from 2.6 percent.
But the other twist is that emergency contraception apparently works in a manner similar to that of the ordinary birth control pill. That is to say, the pill, which contains the hormone progestin, also has three possible means of operation: by stopping ovulation, preventing fertilization or impeding implantation. If emergency contraception is a potential abortifacient, then the same would seem to be true for the pill, which tens of millions of women have taken over the past several decades. Dr. Rudd disputed this. ''The scientific evidence is that emergency contraception is more likely to have a post-fertility effect than the routine birth control,'' he told me. But Dr. James Trussell, director of the Office of Population Research at Princeton University and one of the world's leading experts on contraception, said: ''That is completely wrong. The evidence is about the same for all hormonal methods of contraception. We can't rule out a post-fertility effect for Plan B, and the same is true for the birth control pill.''
The findings suggest that patients with the gene alterations might be helped by drugs that can impede the altered genes' effects, and they show how altered genes can amplify each other to cause disease. One of the altered genes confers a fivefold increase in risk of heart failure. The other has no effect by itself but when combined with alterations in the first gene leads to a tenfold increase. ''It's fantastic,'' Dr. Arthur M. Feldman, chairman of the department of medicine at Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia, said of the new findings. Dr. Feldman, who was not involved in the study, added, ''This is the next era of care for heart failure patients.'' Dr. Douglas Mann, a heart failure expert at the Houston Veterans Affairs Medical Center and Baylor College of Medicine who also was not involved in the study, called it ''a substantial step forward.'' People who do not have either genetic variation can still develop the disease. But the results may help explain why the condition is much more common in African-Americans than in Americans of European descent. About 5 percent of blacks in the general population have the altered two-gene combination while fewer than 1 percent of whites have it.
The nation's suddenly notorious voting problem is similar. After the Florida election, cries went out to improve the accuracy of voting by getting rid of the old punch cards with their fickle chads. Less error-prone machines, like touch-screen versions,  are expensive -- Sequoia County in California just spent nearly $14 million on 4,250 machines. But you can't accidentally vote twice, and there should be no ambiguity about whom you voted for. Over all, accuracy tends to go up. But, as with any computer solution, the problem is that not only can the machines introduce errors but the errors can be much harder to detect, Peter Neumann, a computer scientist at SRI International in Menlo Park, Calif., warned. What if there is a tiny glitch in the software or the hardware? How would you know if 1 out of every 100,000 votes goes to someone other than the intended candidate? What if the misdirected votes were created by programmer sabotage?
Autism, which varies in severity and has no known cause and no real cure, is generally diagnosed in children when they are around 3 years old. While autistic children may appear physically healthy, they may stare into space for hours, throw tantrums, show no interest in people and pursue repetitive activities, like banging their heads. As adults, some people with autism are highly functional, while others never learn to speak and may require institutionalization. Mrs. Gallagher, whose son, Austin, now 6, was later found to have the disorder, began attending meetings of an Ocean County support group. After several months, she said, she noticed that many families in the group were from her town, a working-class community bisected by the Metedeconk River. She and her husband, a commercial fisherman, began to think that there might be something more than coincidence linking all these cases. More than two years ago, they decided to investigate, on their own, the extent of the problem in Brick.
It is difficult to state precisely when this rethinking began, but George W. Bush's victory in 2000, which was aided mightily by social conservatives, came around the same time that the abortion pill and the emergency contraception pill reached the market, and that convergence of events might be seen as the beginning of a new chapter in the culture war. State legislatures are debating dozens of bills surrounding emergency contraception, or the ''morning-after pill'': whether pharmacists have the right to refuse to fill orders; whether it should be made available over the counter; whether Catholic hospitals may decline to provide it to rape victims. To the dismay of many public-health officials, and following the will of conservative Christian organizations, the Bush administration has steadily moved the federal family-planning program in the direction of an abstinence-only-until-marriage program. Some conservative groups and some Republicans in Congress have waged a campaign against condoms in recent years, claiming they are less effective than popularly believed in preventing pregnancy and protecting against sexually transmitted diseases. Important international health experts say the Bush administration has used the government's program for AIDS relief to transmit its abstinence message overseas, de-emphasizing condoms and jeopardizing the health of large numbers of people, especially in Africa. A regulatory challenge has been filed with the F.D.A., and a push by some Republicans in Congress is under way to suspend the sale of the abortion pill (also known by the brand names RU-486 or Mifeprex) on the grounds that it is unsafe. The lead counsel in this challenge, however, admits the underlying motivation is opposition to abortion. Meanwhile, the abortion pill and the emergency contraception pill -- because of their ease of use, the mechanisms by which they work and the fact that they are taken after sex -- have blurred the line between contraception and abortion and have added a new wrinkle to the traditional anti-abortion movement.
''We are certainly going to be looking into the compliance with the M.R.I.'s by doctors and patients,'' said Donna-Bea Tillman, director of the F.D.A.'s office of device evaluation. Ms. Tillman said the agency had determined that silicone-gel-filled implants are safe and effective for women 22 or older who receive the appropriate follow-up care. She added that it was not clear how using the devices without following the recommendations may affect safety and efficacy. The two largest plastic surgery associations said they strongly advise members to adhere to the guidelines. Mentor Corporation, which makes silicone implants, said it supports the product labeling. The other implant manufacturer, Allergan Inc., said that it encourages physicians and patients to follow the recommendations and that it offers training for physicians to understand them. About 330,000 cosmetic breast augmentations were performed in the United States in 2006, up from about 291,000 in 2005, according to statistics from a survey of doctors conducted by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. These numbers do not include patients who had implants for reconstruction after breast cancer.
Ads like this, as well as the hormone itself, are at the epicenter of a continuing nasty battle between the gerontological medical establishment and proponents of what are known as anti-aging medicines, estimated to be a multibillion-dollar-a-year business. Human growth hormone is a prescription drug that must be injected for any results. Some doctors operate ''anti-aging clinics'' that may charge $1,000 or more a month to give such injections to people trying to turn back the clock. Some medical researchers warn that these treatments are unproved and potentially dangerous. Results of a clinical study published last month in the Journal of the American Medical Association showed that human growth hormone did increase lean muscle mass and fat loss in test subjects, but that the gains were accompanied by adverse side effects in nearly half the cases. The side effects included pre-diabetes, diabetes, aching joints and swollen tissues. Dr. S. Mitchell Harman, director of the Kronos Longevity Research Institute in Phoenix and an author of the study, says he believes that medical science may someday be able to take 20 years off your age. ''But we sure as hell can't now,'' Dr. Harman said. ''Anyone who says they can is of the P. T. Barnum school.''
After accomplishing this Houdini-like escape, the metastatic cell passes through a capillary into the blood stream, where it is tossed and tumbled and can be ripped apart by the sheer force of circulation, or attacked by white blood cells. If the malignant cell survives, it clings to a tiny capillary at another site, until it can eventually make its way out of that capillary into the tissue of a new organ. In foreign tissue, the cancer cell, now called a micrometastasis, faces a hostile environment. The liver, for instance, is foreign territory to a breast cell. Some die immediately, others divide a few times, then die. Others stay dormant. The surviving cancer cells regenerate and colonize, becoming a macrometastasis that can be seen on diagnostic tests. As the metastasis grows, it becomes lethal by crowding out normal cells and compromising the function of the organ. In recent years, scientists have begun to investigate each of these steps to identify the genes and their molecular products that drive the changes. Several emerging fields of study have generated excitement among cancer researchers.
''There are places in this country where there are more doctors who perform abortions looking for work than we can handle,'' Mr. Fitzsimmons said. Dr. Ramos said that he understands why. ''Anything that's not managed care is exquisitely popular.'' In fact, he said, the only thing that is keeping more doctors from entering the abortion arena is the social stigma. ''My patients say, 'How do you feel doing abortions all day?' '' Dr. Ramos said. He tells them that he feels fine -- that he is helping women at a difficult time of their lives and that, he said, is very gratifying. ''I find this to be a very rewarding practice,'' Dr. Ramos said. ''Emotionally rewarding and financially rewarding.'' Correction:  January 3, 2001, Wednesday  A front-page article on Saturday about competition among abortion providers referred incorrectly to the number of Planned Parenthood clinics that offered abortions in 1991. It was 99 clinics out of 911, not 91 out of 199. The article also included a physician's erroneous reference to a comparably sparse service -- Lexus dealers in Nevada. There are two, not one.
Dr. Donald A. Bergman, a Manhattan endocrinologist, predicts obesity drugs will end up being overprescribed and abused. ''Some people are going to want to take them to get ready for an engagement, a TV appearance, whatever,'' he said. ''Some people are going to take advantage of the system.'' Still, Dr. Bergman, a founder of the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, said such concerns were not reason enough to discourage the development and approval of obesity drugs. The growing ranks of the obese are simply too alarming a problem, he said. ''We have to do something to save them.'' The Never-Ending Fight By the time Patricia Gallagher, a Louisville hairdresser, joined an L-Marc clinical trial last August, she was tired of shopping in what she called the ''fat lady shop.'' She had tried everything. Weight Watchers. A diet of cabbage soup. Even a four-day regimen of cauliflower, beets and hot dogs.
After three years of denying that the arthritis drug Vioxx could induce heart attacks and strokes, this week Merck bowed to reality: it withdrew Vioxx from the market. The impact of this decision is far-reaching, and not only because tens of millions of people have tried Vioxx. It also highlights the absence of Food and Drug Administration oversight of the pharmaceutical industry as well as the lack of comprehensive long-term studies of not only Vioxx but its entire class of arthritis drugs. In 2001, I was part of a team from the Cleveland Clinic that published a paper demonstrating the significant heart attack risk of Vioxx. Our research, published in The Journal of the American Medical Association, found that compared to naproxen, a commonly used over-the-counter anti-inflammatory drug with similar benefits, Vioxx has a five times greater heart attack risk. In response, Merck claimed that early conclusions about the risk were flawed, and attributed the comparatively high heart attack rates to an unproven protective effect of naproxen. Our study was followed by several others demonstrating Vioxx's dangers. Each time Merck had a similar reply: the study was ''flawed.''
That said, this was a small study that lacked a control group, so more research would be needed to confirm that interval training was responsible. Interval training isn't for everyone. ''Pushing your heart rate up very high with intensive interval training can put a strain on the cardiovascular system, provoking a heart attack or stroke in people at risk,'' said Walter R. Thompson, professor of exercise science at Georgia State University in Atlanta. For anyone with heart disease or high blood pressure -- or who has joint problems such as arthritis or is older than 60 -- experts say to consult a doctor before starting interval training. Still, anyone in good health might consider doing interval training once or twice a week. Joggers can alternate walking and sprints. Swimmers can complete a couple of fast laps, then four more slowly. There is no single accepted formula for the ratio between hard work and a moderate pace or resting. In fact, many coaches recommend varying the duration of activity and rest.
Dr. Dai said sharp contrasts are evident between the south, which was sprayed, and the north, which was not, and between northern residents who fought in the south and those who did not. ''Of course, to be very accurate, we need to have more medical study to confirm the causes,'' said Dr. Nguyen Thi My Hien, the director of the hospital here, the Thanh Xuan Peace Village, that cares for deformed children. But she said she believed that about 80 of her 100 patients were victims of chemical spraying. One of these is Nguyen Cong Nang, 11, the severely retarded son of a former soldier who is himself disabled, with metal shrapnel lodged behind his right eye. Now the father, Nguyen Van Hien, 45, spends his days at the hospital, feeding and bathing his son and rocking him to sleep at nap times. He said that all three of his sons had birth defects and that friends from the war also had children who were born deformed.
ESKIMO hunters killed a bowhead whale off the coast of Alaska last month and began to chainsaw their way into its blubber. They stopped when the saw hit the tip of an old harpoon lodged deep inside the whale. Historians identified it last week as part of a bomb lance, a harpoon manufactured for only a few years in the late 1800s in New Bedford, Mass. Whalers probably fired it at the bowhead around 1890, when the whale was probably a teenager, and it carried the harpoon for the next 115 years before finally being killed by a modern one. Whales don't carry birth certificates, so scientists usually can make only rough estimates of their age by examining protein in the lenses of their billiard-ball-size eyes. The bomb lance is pretty clear proof that this particular bowhead whale lived longer than any human on record. Had the whale escaped the second harpoon, scientists say it might have lived another 80 years. Indeed, the age of another bowhead examined by scientists in 1999 was put at 211 years. It holds the record for the longest-lived vertebrate.
That is why doctors who treat colorectal cancer are beginning to embrace the idea of regular colonoscopies and sigmoidoscopies beginning at age 50. ''They should be considered the same as pap smears and mammographies with women,'' Dr. Shabot said. The most widely publicized recent case of colon cancer -- Yankee outfielder Darryl Strawberry, 36, who underwent surgery during the postseason playoffs -- was unusual in that the disease rarely strikes people so young. His prognosis is excellent, although his case was not caught through screening, but in tests performed after he complained of abdominal discomfort. More men are having scope tests than ever before, but the numbers are rising far more slowly than their striking results would suggest. A 1998 survey by the American Cancer Society found that less than half of the entire adult population had been screened for colorectal cancer according to its guidelines, said Dr. Gabriel Feldman, the society's national director for prostate and colorectal cancer control. ''Most of them claimed it was because their doctor had not recommended it,'' Dr. Feldman said.
The success stories might not have been so surprising had it been clear that the 95 percent failure rate was so poorly founded. The figure comes not from any kind of random sampling, but from a study of 100 patients treated for obesity at a nutrition clinic at New York Hospital in the 1950's. In 1959, its authors, Dr. Albert Stunkard and Mavis McLaren-Hume, published a paper in which they concluded, ''Most obese persons will not stay in treatment, most will not lose weight, and of those who do lose weight, most will regain it.'' That conclusion, Dr. Brownell of Yale said, has since become the most frequently quoted statement in obesity literature. Dr. Stunkard, who is now a professor of psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania, said the study was ''perfectly respectable'' for that period. ''The paper made a big impact because everybody thought obesity was pretty easy to treat,'' he said. ''This showed that, for whatever reason, it wasn't.''
''It had a religiosity to it,'' said Dr. Michael Simmons, a professor of pediatrics at the University of North Carolina. ''You see blood that was acidic, and you have a drug that can fix it.'' But with Dr. Frederick Battaglia, now an emeritus professor at the University of Colorado, Dr. Simmons and his colleagues discovered that babies who got bicarbonate of soda actually did worse and, in particular, had more brain hemorrhages, which can cause devastating brain damage. Their study, published in 1974, changed medical practice. And Dr. Simmons said it taught him a lasting lesson: ''Don't begin therapy until you know it will work.'' Dr. Fost said that lesson was all too often forgotten. ''In all these cases of newborn screening gone haywire, there is usually some understandably zealous group of parents of sick kids, patient groups, advocacy groups saying 'Let's get on with it,''' Dr. Fost said. ''Some ethicists asked for clinical trials, but these groups said, 'We don't have time to waste.'''
Those who took more than six minutes for the quarter-mile walk had the same risk of dying or having a heart attack as those who could not walk the distance at all, and the effect was independent of age. That led to the next question. Could teaching people to walk farther and faster prevent their growing so weak they could hardly walk? Dr. Jack Guralnik, acting chief of the laboratory of epidemiology, demography and biometry at the National Institute on Aging, hopes it can. A new pilot study that he helped direct found that, with training, people could walk faster, improve their balance and more easily rise from a chair. Now he wants to expand that study to explore whether such training helps people retain their ability to walk and improves their health. Richard J. Hodes, director of the National Institute on Aging is intrigued. ''It would be an extremely expensive study,'' Dr. Hodes said, adding that its costs have not been added up. But, he said, if training could keep just 10 percent to 20 percent more people mobile, ''I'm sure billions would be saved.''
To scientists, this sounds oh so familiar. But the institute, the scientists and the discovery are actually fictional. They are from a new novel, ''Intuition'' (Dial Press), by a nonscientist, Allegra Goodman, whose doctorate is in English literature. Scientists who have read the book say that somehow, Ms. Goodman has managed to write a tale about life in a science lab that rings so true and includes details so accurate and vivid that they say they are left reeling. How could an outsider, someone who has not been bathed in the culture and mores of science, get it so right? ''I think it's a unique book because it completely nails this world,'' said Dr. Jerome Groopman, an oncologist and a professor of medicine at Harvard and the director of a laboratory there. ''It understands the psychology, the dynamics, the processes and pressures that exist in the current culture of science,'' Dr. Groopman, who reviewed ''Intuition'' for the online magazine Slate, said in a telephone interview. ''I was stunned. I was really stunned.''
''Women aren't exactly lining up to be donors,'' said Dr. Mark Sauer, director of the Center for Women's Reproductive Care at the Columbia University Medical Center. ''There are a lot more recipients than donors.'' Part of the problem is that the risks of donation have not been thoroughly studied. Although the consensus among most reproductive endocrinologists is that extraction is safe, five deaths have been reported in Britain. There are enough unanswered questions that stem cell researchers have promised not to pay for eggs. ''One of the most striking facts about in vitro fertilization is just how little is known with certainty about the long-term health outcomes for the women who undergo the procedure,'' a recent report by the Institute of Medicine said. The 2005 guidelines of the National Academy of Sciences for human embryonic stem cell research discourage paying for eggs for research. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine reimburses women only for out-of-pocket expenses like lost wages or cab fare.
Senator Olympia Snowe of Maine, an abortion rights Republican who has sponsored legislation that would require insurance companies to cover contraception, has seen a major change. ''Two decades or more ago, I don't think there was much of a divide on contraception and family planning,'' she says. ''It was one area both sides could agree on as a way to reduce unwanted pregnancies. Now it becomes embroiled in philosophical disputes.'' The Guttmacher Institute, which like Siecus has been an advocate for birth control and sex education for decades, has also felt the shift. ''Ten years ago the fight was all about abortion,'' says Cynthia Dailard, a senior public-policy associate at Guttmacher. ''Increasingly, they have moved to attack and denigrate contraception. For those of us who work in the public health field, and respect longstanding public health principles -- that condoms reduce S.T.D.'s, that contraception is the most effective way to help people avoid unintended pregnancy -- it's extremely disheartening to think we may be set back decades.''
It may seem odd that scientists in the Internet age spend years on a line of research, even bet their careers on it, without having first determined that their mountain had not already been climbed. But Dr. Stigler said that scientists often are ignorant of the work being done by others in their field, and searches of scientific literature can be hard to conduct. Web search engines, for example, look for words, not ideas, and Dr. Vohra said he discovered that every researcher who had made his discovery had given it a different name and description. In 1957, for example, a statistician named James Hanna called his theorem Bayesian Regret. He had been preceded by David Blackwell, also a statistician, who called his theorem Controlled Random Walks. Other, later papers had titles like ''On Pseudo Games,'' ''How to Play an Unknown Game,'' ''Universal Coding'' and ''Universal Portfolios,'' Dr. Vohra said, adding, ''It's not obvious how you do a literature search for this result.''
''This is a serious public issue. In my 20 years with the Connecticut Department of Public Health, I haven't seen a shortage like this,'' said Dr. Matthew Cartter, epidemiology program coordinator for the state's Department of Public Health. ''In an average year, 38,000 Americans die of influenza. The focus of our efforts is to make sure the vaccine gets to those at highest risk of serious complications.'' Campbell Connors, 3, and her brother Jack, 1, made the cut because they have a three-week-old brother. ''Having a newborn in the house, you are more cautious,'' said their mother, Kimberly Connors of New Canaan. ''At Campbell's school they're good about having the children wash their hands and keeping them home when they're sick, but you feel better knowing they've had the shot. I was glad I scheduled the appointments before I heard about the shortage.'' Dr. Cartter said flu season in Connecticut starts with a few cases in late November and December and peaks in January. Efforts to redistribute the vaccine in time were under way. The C.D.C. was trying to get surplus vaccine from the other major supplier, Aventis Pasteur, and apportion it where needed, a process that could take six to eight weeks. Also, the state asked local health departments to report any vaccine surpluses and shortages in their communities in order to compile a master list.
In a chat room on testosterone.net, a Web site for steroid users, ''Long Island Dawg'' bragged that Long Island is ''the juice capital of the world (aka 'Strong Island').'' ''Strong Island is the Mecca of East Coast bodybuilding, weightlifting and chemical enhancement,'' he wrote. ''If you don't think Long Island is hardcore, I've got 30 raged-out juiceheads who would love to meet you. The whole island's full of massive dudes! I'm surprised it doesn't list to the right and float off into the Atlantic. ''Strong Island is packed with some of the biggest, dumbest, toughest juiceheads you will ever find,'' he concluded. ''Just go to any L.I. club and you will see what I'm talking about.'' Authorities on Long Island say they also see an alarming surge in young people experimenting with over-the-counter dietary supplements that claim to build muscle or burn fat in conjunction with weightlifting. These products are legal, but their long-term health effects are disputed.
At this point, though, the radiologist can manipulate the image just as people using photography software can alter photographs on a computer. The radiologist can lighten, darken, enlarge and rotate the image to bring out more information. ''If you can play with the image, you're likely to be able to figure out more about it than you would with just a static image,'' Dr. Pisano said. To date, there has been only one screening study comparing digital mammography to film mammography, and it is relatively small, with 6,768 women. Large screening studies are difficult to do because they're expensive and require women to have two mammograms. Results of the study, conducted at the University of Colorado and the University of Massachusetts, were presented in November at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America in Chicago. The women were given both digital and film mammograms. Of 51 confirmed cancers, 18 were detected by both digital and film methods, and digital detected 9 that were missed by film, but film detected 16 missed by digital. Eight cancers were missed by both methods but became noticeable within a year. Statistically, there was no difference in the effectiveness of the two methods.
Dr. Nestle believes people are either unwilling or unable to distinguish the difference between a 2-ounce bagel and one that weighs 6 ounces. ''It's astonishing to me how difficult it is for people to understand conceptually that larger portions mean more calories,'' she said. Kelly D. Brownell, director of the Yale Center for Eating and Weight Disorders in New Haven, is even more pessimistic. He says it is almost impossible for people to cope with what he calls the nation's ''toxic environment.'' ''The average American child sees 10,000 food ads on television each year,'' he said. ''Bad food and its availability are as much a part of the American environment as clouds and trees.'' There are places you never expected to eat, Dr. Brownell said, like gas stations and drugstores and shopping malls. Snack food and soft drink machines are installed in American schools, even as physical education in schools is waning.
While he acknowledged that Merck was involved in reviewing the manuscript, he said the paper's authors responded to all the comments raised by the editor and the reviewers and that the final draft reflected changes made to address their concerns. ''The end product was a good final product,'' he said. ''If The New England Journal didn't think this was an appropriate and satisfactory product, they didn't have to publish it,'' Dr. Bresalier said. While Dr. Bresalier and the other outside authors reached insisted that they felt comfortable with how the risks were eventually portrayed, he said the 18-month finding was not seen as critical by the researchers, even if it had been ''up-played'' by Merck and its lawyers. ''Of course they want to minimize their liability,'' he said.
Bell Labs convened a committee, led by Dr. Malcolm R. Beasley, an applied physics professor at Stanford University. On Wednesday, it announced that Dr. Schn had ''committed misconduct'' and Bell Labs immediately fired him. He admitted he made mistakes, but said that his findings were based on experimental observations. The report cleared the other scientists involved. In almost all cases, the colleagues never saw Dr. Schn's experiments; they had made molecular crystals and Dr. Schn made them into electronic devices. Should they have known? Dr. Beasley's committee said the question of co-author responsibility ''is an extremely difficult issue, which the scientific community has not considered carefully.'' ''We struggled with that issue,'' Dr. Beasley said in a telephone interview. ''We tried to say some thoughtful things, but we didn't feel qualified to come to a definite conclusion. And that's not because we're wimps.'' Collaboration, he said, is built on trust. But, Dr. Beasley added, ''Is that enough? In our judgment, maybe not, but that is something the community needs to decide.''
''We want to prevent such cases in the future,'' said Mr. Abu Aljidian, who added that his condition persuaded him notto marry within the family. Mr. Abu Aljidian married a woman who is not a relative, and the couple have two normal, healthy children. Dr. Abuelaish is the lab's connection to Gaza. A specialist in fetal medicine, he meets with families who have a history of genetic diseases, collects blood samples and draws up the detailed family trees of his patients. ''People need help, and we try to help them,'' he said. Access to the modern facilities in Israel is essential for his patients in Gaza because there are no genetic labs there. In Beersheba, Dr. Abuelaish shows Dr. Birk a collection of X-rays he took of a brother and sister from Gaza who suffer from phocomelia, in which their limbs are short and twisted. ''That's his hand,'' said Dr. Abuelaish, pointing to a 6-year-old boy who has three oversized fingers on one hand, two on the other. Like his older sister, he has legs that are only a few inches long. The two get around in wheelchairs that they roll down the dusty streets of their refugee camp.
But the other twist is that emergency contraception apparently works in a manner similar to that of the ordinary birth control pill. That is to say, the pill, which contains the hormone progestin, also has three possible means of operation: by stopping ovulation, preventing fertilization or impeding implantation. If emergency contraception is a potential abortifacient, then the same would seem to be true for the pill, which tens of millions of women have taken over the past several decades. Dr. Rudd disputed this. ''The scientific evidence is that emergency contraception is more likely to have a post-fertility effect than the routine birth control,'' he told me. But Dr. James Trussell, director of the Office of Population Research at Princeton University and one of the world's leading experts on contraception, said: ''That is completely wrong. The evidence is about the same for all hormonal methods of contraception. We can't rule out a post-fertility effect for Plan B, and the same is true for the birth control pill.''
In the late 1990's, Dr. Yang mastered the same technique that the Scottish scientist Ian Wilmut had used to create Dolly, the cloned sheep born in 1996. The method, somatic cell nuclear transfer, involves fusing the skin cell of a creature to a hollowed-out egg, which is then implanted in a female surrogate. Among other accomplishments, seven years ago Dr. Yang created the first cloned cow in the United States. Another first came a year ago, when Dr. Yang teamed with Chinese researchers to derive stem cells from the embryos of cloned cattle. In other words, Dr. Yang is well accomplished in the very methods that would be integral to successfully create a human embryonic stem cell line through nuclear transfer. Hwang Woo Suk, a South Korean researcher, was believed to be the first to do so before it was revealed last year that his results were fabricated. Therapeutic cloning, as it is known, would produce not a baby but stem cells of a patient's own genetic material, which theoretically could be manipulated to become whatever cells are needed for healing. Because they would consist of the patient's own genetic material, the body would not reject them.
Protecting children from endocrine disrupters in cosmetics and prescription drugs may also be difficult in the near future. In 1989, the Food and Drug Administration proposed allowing up to 10,000 units of estrogen per ounce of cosmetic, the approximate oral daily dose of hormone replacement therapy for postmenopausal women. Dr. Tiwary said that in the early 1990's he filed an adverse drug report with the agency about hormone-containing shampoos but that to his knowledge, it never came to anything. Reached by e-mail, a spokeswoman for the F.D.A. said that the agency was ''aware of some reports describing premature sexual devolepment'' with shampoos but that it had concluded that ''there is no reason for consumers to be concerned.'' At this time, ''placental materials are neither prohibited by cosmetic regulations nor restricted'' by the F.D.A., she wrote. Dr. Dedekian said that while prohormones like Andro are no longer commercially available, lax regulation of so-called compounding pharmacies allows the manufacture and sale of concentrated testosterone creams, like the one affecting his patient, without government oversight.
These researchers point out that there are plenty of reasons to suggest that the low-fat-is-good-health hypothesis has now effectively failed the test of time. In particular, that we are in the midst of an obesity epidemic that started around the early 1980's, and that this was coincident with the rise of the low-fat dogma. (Type 2 diabetes, the most common form of the disease, also rose significantly through this period.) They say that low-fat weight-loss diets have proved in clinical trials and real life to be dismal failures, and that on top of it all, the percentage of fat in the American diet has been decreasing for two decades. Our cholesterol levels have been declining, and we have been smoking less, and yet the incidence of heart disease has not declined as would be expected. ''That is very disconcerting,'' Willett says. ''It suggests that something else bad is happening.'' The science behind the alternative hypothesis can be called Endocrinology 101, which is how it's referred to by David Ludwig, a researcher at Harvard Medical School who runs the pediatric obesity clinic at Children's Hospital Boston, and who prescribes his own version of a carbohydrate-restricted diet to his patients. Endocrinology 101 requires an understanding of how carbohydrates affect insulin and blood sugar and in turn fat metabolism and appetite. This is basic endocrinology, Ludwig says, which is the study of hormones, and it is still considered radical because the low-fat dietary wisdom emerged in the 1960's from researchers almost exclusively concerned with the effect of fat on cholesterol and heart disease. At the time, Endocrinology 101 was still underdeveloped, and so it was ignored. Now that this science is becoming clear, it has to fight a quarter century of anti-fat prejudice.
Keeping score, though, is not simply a matter of identifying and weeding out the worst practitioners. For Dr. Adcock and his admirers, the statistics offer a way to approach a more pervasive, and more elusive, problem that increasingly preoccupies the entire medical profession: the mistakes that, to varying degrees, all doctors make. At Kaiser in Denver, the statistics anchor a regimen of continuous education that far outstrips the few hours a year the government requires. The Denver doctors are constantly analyzing their errors, searching for those meaningful patterns of shadow that they have missed, perhaps again and again. The Denver group is not the first to use statistics to track doctor performance. A small but growing number of other mammography programs are beginning to keep score. Several states now publish individual doctors' death rates for open-heart surgery. But seven years in, the Kaiser mammography group has perhaps gone as far as anyone in creating a statistical system for holding doctors accountable for their work.
If the pill and the IUD may prevent implantation, and if implantation is where anti-abortion groups draw the line, why haven't such groups railed against them for decades? Some have, but they got no traction. What happened, over the past 40 years, is that contraception became an accepted fact of life, and those who were opposed to it found themselves residing on the outer fringe. In the current, evolving movement against contraception, therefore, some groups soft-pedal their position. ''Concerned Women for America does not take a position regarding birth control,'' Wendy Wright, president of that influential, 500,000-member, biblically-based organization, told me. She went on to say, however, that C.W.A. does ''educate regarding how certain birth control methods operate.'' Specifically, the group offers a brochure titled ''High-Tech Birth Control: Health Care or Health Risk?'' to those who call seeking guidance. Most methods of birth control can pose health risks. A 2005 World Health Organization study, for instance, found a connection between some forms of the pill and cancer. But the C.W.A. brochure goes well beyond this. Its section on emergency contraception advises that ''its main function is to abort a living human embryo.'' One function of the birth control pill, it states, is to induce ''a chemical abortion.'' The section on the IUD indicates none of its practical benefits (its 99 percent effectiveness in preventing pregnancy, its reversibility) and consists mostly of a litany of health complications, many of which health experts refute.
In their first investigative break, state officials said today that a trace amount of anthrax had been discovered on a letter delivered to a family living one mile from the home of the 94-year-old woman who died of inhalation anthrax last week. The letter, received by a family in Seymour, Conn., in early October, was processed in a New Jersey mail center within 15 seconds of the contaminated letters sent to two United States senators, the officials said. Those letters are believed to have played a role in the deaths of at least two people and the sickening of a handful of others. Though the discovery does not provide any breakthrough clues on the precise origin of the lethal dose of the bacteria, it bolsters the dominant theory of investigators that anthrax-contaminated mail processed in the postal center in Hamilton, N.J., may have played a role in the Connecticut woman's death.
But, Dr. Cleeman added, ''I think it is reasonable to say that it is the preferred option to get these people to an L.D.L. level of less than 70.'' It will not be an easy goal to achieve, heart disease experts said. Dr. Scott M. Grundy of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical School at Dallas, the lead author of the new report, said, ''A standard dose of statins gets most people close to 100.'' ''If you are going to get from there down to 70, you have to take a high dose of statins,'' Dr. Grundy said, ''which still might not get you there.'' One possibility, he said, is to add another drug like niacin or ezetimibe, a drug that reduces the amount of cholesterol absorbed from the digestive tract. But even then, said Dr. Daniel Rader, director of preventive cardiology at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, many people will not be able to reach an L.D.L. level of 70. ''There definitely are still going to be people who even with combination therapy can't get their L.D.L. level into that range,'' Dr. Rader said.
Now, though, that taboo is fading, and Moseley and Wray are not the only ones arguing that new surgical techniques, like new medicines, ought to be tested with placebo controls. Doctors investigating a new technique for treating Parkinson's disease, for example, incorporated a placebo control group -- patients who had holes drilled in their skulls to simulate the real procedure, in which fetal cells are implanted in the brain -- into a widely publicized study released last April. The study showed a significant placebo effect, though the motor ability of the patients who actually got the fetal implants improved even more. ''This is just the beginning,'' Dr. C. Warren Olanow, chairman of neurology at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, told Time magazine. ''Tomorrow, if you have a new procedure, you will have to do a double-blind placebo trial.'' Some doctors argue, with reason, that the new enthusiasm for placebo surgery is driven by hospital bean counters and insurers who want hard evidence that an expensive procedure works before they'll pay for it. And yet, with all due respect for medical economics, that can't be the only explanation. If placebo surgery makes sense, it makes sense because of the growing body of evidence for the strength of the placebo effect in general. Maybe pretend operations are just the most sensational proof of a diffuse phenomenon that has never quite been explained, but that, as the historian of science Anne Harrington has written, continues to ''haunt our house of biomedical objectivity.''
DR. JAMES FOLEY, 43, of Montclair, starts his day at 6:30 a.m. and often doesn't arrive home until 8:30 at night. But he doesn't work in an office, laboratory or hospital. He drives a Ford pickup truck equipped with portable EKG and X-ray machines in addition to a full array of medicines and medical instruments. Mounted to his dashboard is a laptop computer that contains patient records, the Physicians' Desk Reference and other texts. He also keeps three cellphones on hand, each a different color -- he rotates them to help minimize the cost of making 30 hours of calls each week, to patients, family members, pharmacies and others. And, oh, yes, his vehicle is equipped with a global positioning system. Dr. Foley makes house calls. And his ranks are growing. In 2002, the Medicare program paid New Jersey physicians for making 106,000 house calls, up from 96,000 in 1999, according to federal statistics. Nationally, the number increased 14 percent, with Medicare paying physicians around the country for more than 1.7 million home visits in 2002, compared with fewer than 1.5 million in 1999.
Cindy Laney, a former aerobics instructor, often runs five miles and lifts weights. ''But I always had these bulges around my middle that no amount of dieting or exercise would get rid of,'' she says. This year, Ms. Laney, 36, decided to have liposuction surgery. She had about four pounds of fat sucked from her midsection and says she is thrilled with the results. For the last five years, lipoplasty, as liposuction is now medically termed, has been the leading cosmetic surgery procedure in this country, with 385,000 procedures last year. People 35 to 50 have the most procedures. Women represented a vast majority, but men made up 20 percent of the total last year, according to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery. Most patients have an average of five pounds removed. Over the last several years, the operation has become safer, in part because smaller amounts of fat are removed. Most people can return to work within a week and begin light exercise in two weeks or so. Swelling usually goes down in about a week; bruising and some numbness generally last about three weeks.
Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, who is finishing a tour of Southeast Asia to assess the threat of bird flu, said in a telephone interview from Vietnam that no country could defeat the disease by itself. ''Think of the world as a vast forest that's dry and susceptible to fire,'' he said, while declining to address the specifics of China's handling of the disease. ''Every forest fire starts with a spark.'' Though no human cases of the disease have been reported here, the size of China's human and poultry population makes it possible the spark will happen here. China has won high marks from international experts, however, for responding swiftly to bird flu cases that are identified. When China acknowledged in July 2004 that it had found bird flu in a single chicken in east-central China, local authorities slaughtered every domesticated bird within a two-mile radius and vaccinated the remaining birds in a three-mile radius.
Dr. Dan Blazer, a psychiatrist at Duke who was chairman of the committee, said, ''In no way did we find a condition that we defined as low T.'' The major clinical trial of Androgel's effectiveness for low T, published in The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism in 2000, included neither a placebo group (patients who received an inactive dummy lotion) nor a control group (patients who did not have low T) for comparison. Dr. Ronald Swerdloff, the chief of endocrinology at Harbor-U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Torrance, Calif., and a consultant for Solvay, who ran the study, said the trial was limited in scope since it examined ''a new route of administration for an already established drug.'' Correction:  October 27, 2006, Friday  An article in Science Times on Oct. 17 about cases of puberty in very young children omitted the author's affiliation. The author, Dr. Darshak M. Sanghavi, is a pediatric cardiologist at the University of Massachusetts Medical School, as is an expert he quoted, Dr. Michael Dedekian.
''We really have to find a way of dispensing with eggs we collect from women,'' said Dr. Peter Mombaerts, assistant professor at Rockefeller University and a scientific adviser to Advanced Cell Technology. One way, he said, may be to use animal eggs, something the company has tried. Another approach may be to make eggs out of stem cells, since stem cells can theoretically be used to make any kind of cell. But therapeutic cloning is years from being tried on patients in any case, and by then the efficiency may have improved, reducing both the number of eggs required and the cost of the procedure. Even executives who said they did not think therapeutic cloning would be practical also said the practice should not be banned. At this early stage, so little is known about which technology is best that all options should be kept open, they said. THE STEM CELL DEBATE
Now, however, experts say the resurgence of house calls is likely to continue, since the number of citizens 65 and older, now about 35 million, is expected to double over the next three decades. New Jersey, with one million, ranks ninth in the nation in number of residents over age 65. Such demographic changes are giving rise to more groups around the country that address gerontology and home care. In addition to the Call Doctor Medical Group, Mobile Doctors serves Illinois, Indiana and Michigan, and Doctors Making House Calls is based in North Carolina. New Jersey also has its share of these organizations. Visiting Physician Services, based in Eatontown, was established in 1996 by Dr. Jon Salisbury to deliver medical care to patients in Monmouth County. In the last two years, the company has doubled in size, according to Alex Binder, chief operating officer, and now extends its services to patients in Essex, Middlesex, Ocean and Union counties. ''Because of the growing demand, we have added one new county each year,'' Mr. Binder said.
''There aren't many guys in the peloton'' -- the main pack of riders in a road bicycle race -- ''who are willing to tell Lance to go screw himself,'' says David Zabriskie, a top American who rides for the Danish CSC team. ''Floyd just didn't care.'' It was late afternoon, and Landis was reclining in the front seat of Kay's Lincoln LS, the seat slid all the way back for comfort. We were on our way to the mountains north of San Diego to see the spot where Landis crashed in 2003. At the moment, however, Landis's mind seemed focused on the future: specifically, on how the disclosure of his hip problem might play out at the Tour de France. Historically, the spectacle of the injured rider who refuses to quit ranks as one of the tour's most reliable sources of gloire, starting with Honor Barthlmy (broken shoulder, dislocated wrist and eye injury, 1920), Eddy Merckx (broken jaw, 1975), Pascal Simon (broken shoulder blade, 1983). But Landis had a hunch that his disclosure might inspire a less worshipful reaction, at least among his rivals. ''I better bring the X-rays, because some of them aren't going to believe it,'' he said, going on to recount the memorable drama at the 2003 tour, when Hamilton, riding for CSC, was forced to display X-rays of his cracked collarbone to quell intimations of fakery. ''Most of the guys, though, will just not care. Which is fine with me -- why should they?''
The study, which followed 10,000 people over five years, compared patients taking 10 milligrams of Lipitor with those taking 80 milligrams, the maximum dose. Those on the higher dose had a 22 percent lower risk of a heart attack and a 25 percent lower risk of stroke. But the reduced risk of heart attack and stroke from the higher dose did not translate into a lower risk of death over all, because many more people died from other factors on the higher dose. Over all, 284 patients taking 80 milligrams died, compared with 282 patients taking 10 milligrams. In an editorial in The New England Journal of Medicine that accompanied the study, Dr. Bertram Pitt, a cardiologist at the University of Michigan School of Medicine, wrote that doctors should be wary of increasing Lipitor doses. The higher death rate ''is a matter of concern,'' Dr. Pitt wrote. Dr. LaRosa said he believed that extra noncardiovascular deaths on high-dose Lipitor were probably a result of chance. ''I am completely comfortable with the safety of the 80-milligram dose,'' he said.
ESKIMO hunters killed a bowhead whale off the coast of Alaska last month and began to chainsaw their way into its blubber. They stopped when the saw hit the tip of an old harpoon lodged deep inside the whale. Historians identified it last week as part of a bomb lance, a harpoon manufactured for only a few years in the late 1800s in New Bedford, Mass. Whalers probably fired it at the bowhead around 1890, when the whale was probably a teenager, and it carried the harpoon for the next 115 years before finally being killed by a modern one. Whales don't carry birth certificates, so scientists usually can make only rough estimates of their age by examining protein in the lenses of their billiard-ball-size eyes. The bomb lance is pretty clear proof that this particular bowhead whale lived longer than any human on record. Had the whale escaped the second harpoon, scientists say it might have lived another 80 years. Indeed, the age of another bowhead examined by scientists in 1999 was put at 211 years. It holds the record for the longest-lived vertebrate.
For those who were listening, that silence may have given an indication of what had been going on inside the F.D.A. After the agency's advisory committees voted in favor of over-the-counter status for Plan B at the end of 2003, and after it was further approved at every level of the agency's professional staff, standard procedure would have been for the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research arm of the F.D.A. to approve the application. But one member of the F.D.A.'s Reproductive Health Drugs Advisory Committee had reservations: Dr. W. David Hager, a Christian conservative whom President Bush appointed to lead the panel in 2002. (After an outcry from women's groups, who were upset at Dr. Hager's writing that he used Jesus as a model for how he treated women in his gynecology practice, he was shifted from chairman of the panel to ordinary member.) Dr. Hager said he feared that if Plan B were freely available, it would increase sexual promiscuity among teenagers. F.D.A. staff members presented research showing that these fears were ungrounded: large-scale studies showed no increase in sexual activity when Plan B was available to them, and both the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Society for Adolescent Medicine endorsed the switch to over-the-counter status. Others argued that the concern was outside the agency's purview: that the F.D.A.'s mandate was specifically limited to safety and did not extend to matters like whether a product might lead to people having more sex. Meanwhile a government report later found that Dr. Janet Woodcock, deputy commissioner for operations at the F.D.A., had also expressed a fear that making the drug available over the counter could lead to ''extreme promiscuous behaviors such as the medication taking on an 'urban legend' status that would lead adolescents to form sex-based cults centered around the use of Plan B.'' In May 2004, the F.D.A. rejected the finding of its scientific committees and denied the application, citing some of the reasons that Dr. Hager had expressed.
Farther south, Denver's suburban counties have incorporated fat-fighting goals into building and zoning decisions, Dr. Dannenberg and other experts say, creating a hybrid formula of land-use planning and fitness. ''We'll say, 'We'd like to have the opportunity for people to take regular physical exercise during the day -- can you incorporate that?' '' said Carol Maclennan, the environmental health policy coordinator at the Tri-County Health Department, which covers Douglas, Arapahoe and Adams Counties. Even the Denver International Airport is healthy. It was ranked first in the nation last year in the percentage of restaurants offering a healthy entree choice, according to a group called the Physicians' Committee for Responsible Medicine. But researchers say the real main course in Colorado's fight against fat is a supersize planned community under construction on Denver's east side, at the site of the old Stapleton International Airport, which closed in 1995 when the new airport opened.
The study, which followed 10,000 people over five years, compared patients taking 10 milligrams of Lipitor with those taking 80 milligrams, the maximum dose. Those on the higher dose had a 22 percent lower risk of a heart attack and a 25 percent lower risk of stroke. But the reduced risk of heart attack and stroke from the higher dose did not translate into a lower risk of death over all, because many more people died from other factors on the higher dose. Over all, 284 patients taking 80 milligrams died, compared with 282 patients taking 10 milligrams. In an editorial in The New England Journal of Medicine that accompanied the study, Dr. Bertram Pitt, a cardiologist at the University of Michigan School of Medicine, wrote that doctors should be wary of increasing Lipitor doses. The higher death rate ''is a matter of concern,'' Dr. Pitt wrote. Dr. LaRosa said he believed that extra noncardiovascular deaths on high-dose Lipitor were probably a result of chance. ''I am completely comfortable with the safety of the 80-milligram dose,'' he said.
Cloning for reproduction could be done, at least for a while, without most of us knowing it, said Mark Eibert, a lawyer who has submitted testimony to Congress in favor of cloning. ''People who wish to have children may not want those children to become the focus of a media circus,'' he said. As for the health risks involved, Eibert pointed to the precedent of an infertility treatment called ICSI (Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection), in which doctors inject slow-moving or otherwise inefficient sperm directly into the egg's cytoplasm. ICSI was developed in the early 90's and rushed into clinical use in fertility clinics across the country. ''Even though it had virtually no animal experimentation and virtually nothing was known about its safety, it took off,'' Eibert explained. ''Once you get normal healthy children on the ground, cloning will take off, too.'' And if the Ralians are the first to pull it off? So be it. ''From a P.R. point of view, I'd be happy if people like that weren't the first,'' he said. ''But then again, if a Hare Krishna scientist was the first to invent a cancer cure, I think other scientists would be interested enough to pay attention. After a while, the history books wouldn't even mention the religion.''
The academy's program, though, has yet to gain the blessing of established medical groups like the American Medical Association or the American Board of Medical Specialties. And the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, whose members specialize in hormonal medicines, has expressed concern about the growing use of treatments, particularly testosterone and human growth hormone replacement therapy. In a survey last year, many of the members said they felt pressured by some patients to give them prescriptions for products that promise to be a ''magic pill,'' when they may not always be appropriate or safe. Despite the criticism, most anti-aging practitioners say they are filling what consumers tell them is a huge vacuum in health care. ''We take care of patients who have concerns about aging and who go to their doctors, but who can't get much help because they don't have a disease yet,'' said Dr. Joseph M. Raffaele, an internist at Anti-Aging Medicine Associates in Manhattan.
''John is certainly one of the leaders in the field,'' said Dr. Douglas Green, a scientist at the nearby La Jolla Institute for Allergy and Immunology and an occasional collaborator with Dr. Reed. Dr. Green said a handful of scientists working around the world had  contributed more than Dr. Reed to working out the basic mechanisms of apoptosis, and some of them are likely candidates for Nobel Prizes. But there is still along way to go. ''We have the smoking gun,'' said Dr. Green. ''We just don't understand how it gets fired, who holds it in their hands, and why they pull the trigger.'' And that mystery keeps Dr. Reed running hard. Around 7 a.m., Dr. Reed dashes from his office across the street to a gym. He changes into shorts and running shoes and follows a winding path through sandstone cliffs to the beach, then back along an eight-mile loop. After a quick shower, he is back at his desk before 9, dressed in a suit and tie and ready for more work.
As health care providers struggle with whether, how and when doctors should speak of hope, a consensus is building on at least two fronts: that what fundamentally matters is that a doctor tells the truth with kindness, and that a doctor should never just say, ''I have nothing more to offer you.'' More doctors are embracing palliative care specialists as partners who work with critically ill patients and their families to help them redefine their hopes, from the improbable to the possible. Many doctors, whose specialties range from neurosurgery to infertility, retain therapists to counsel patients. ''Hope lives inside a patient and the physician's behavior can either bring it out or suppress it,'' said Dr. Susan D. Block, a palliative care leader at Harvard. ''When a patient has goals, it's impossible to be hopeless. And when a physician can help a patient define them, you feel like a healer, even when the patient is dying.''
And urologists, who in general agree that screening may not benefit certain men, particularly the elderly,  are adamant about the test's potential benefits for finding curable cancers in men in their 50's and 60's. Dr. Robert Reiter, co-director of the prostate cancer program at the Jonsson Cancer Center at the University of California at Los Angeles, said that before the P.S.A. test came into widespread use 10 years ago ''80 percent of the cancers we were diagnosing could not be cured.'' ''But thanks to earlier detection possible with P.S.A. testing,'' Dr. Reiter said, ''nowadays 80 percent of the cancers diagnosed can be cured. So there is no doubt that we have pushed the diagnosis to a point so much earlier that things like surgery do work in terms of curing those cancers.'' THERE are famous advocates, too. Arnold Palmer, the golfer, appeared recently in a public service advertisement inviting men to ''Join Arnie's Army.'' Mr. Palmer had tested positive and underwent surgery for prostate cancer in January 1997. ''I can't stress enough the importance of P.S.A. testing,'' Mr. Palmer is quoted saying in the ad. ''Doctors can catch 8 out of 10 cancers before they spread beyond the prostate.''
When it comes to choosing a mate, animals -- be they butterflies, frogs, elephants or humans -- have strong preferences. They gravitate to the one with the glittering scales, the warbling call, that ineffable something. Such predilections may seem harmless, except perhaps to those not preferred. But they can be major obstacles to scientists trying to breed rare species back into abundance with just a few potential mates. Although Noah may have had no problems working with a single pair of every animal, researchers often find that animals they try to mate will refuse to have anything to do with each other. What with famously recalcitrant lovers like giant pandas (not to mention cloud leopards, an endangered species whose males sometimes kill females presented to them), many animals simply cannot be enticed to love the one they're with. Now scientists working with a declining species, the harvest mouse, report that by using a few simple aromatic manipulations they have taken males that were once entirely unappealing to some females, and have made them altogether more alluring. The technique involves marking objects in the animals' cages with scents given off by the most appealing males.
The generalist, formerly a second-class citizen in a world that valued specialists, would finally get the respect he deserved. Money, too, was part of it. Insurance companies promised to address the inequities built into their payment structure. Medical insurance had been developed to pay for the huge expenses of modern surgery. Office visits were an afterthought. In this system, simply performing procedures was much more highly paid than figuring out whether, or which, procedures were needed. The promise that this would be redressed made this new system very appealing to generalists. The gatekeeper idea was presented to doctors in a 1985 paper published in The Annals of Internal Medicine. The author of that paper, John Eisenberg, an internist at the University of Pennsylvania, was an early supporter. ''The gatekeeper approach,'' he wrote, ''sanctifies the internist's role as primary care physician and captain of the patient's ship.'' He also recognized its potential flaws and pointed out that there was no evidence that this type of system would actually work. One study of the gatekeeper system, published in the late 70's, did show a reduction in hospital days and specialist referrals in one plan. But not long after that study was published, hospital days and referrals rebounded, and two years later the plan went out of business. Another study showed that although a gatekeeper plan did cut costs, the physicians were uncomfortable with their role at the turnstile.
Dr. Levinson's research, however, indicates that allowing patients the time to talk can lead to shorter appointments. When patient complaints are ignored, or their expression is interrupted, there is an increased likelihood that they will re-emerge, ''just when the visit's ending,'' she said. Yet the biggest hindrance to change may be that most training programs focus on changing doctors' behavior, even though it takes two to make a relationship. Studies suggest that the more equal the relationship between doctor and patient is, the more likely it will translate into health benefits. But when the patient is passive, there is an increased likelihood of poor recovery. Dr. Kaplan believes that patient passivity ''should be treated as a risk factor in chronic disease.'' She advocates remedial programs that will provide patients with the skills to ask questions and interpret the answers. Convincing patients of the benefits of working on the relationship may prove easier than convincing doctors, Dr. Levinson said. ''If I go to a cocktail party and tell doctors that I work on doctor-patient communication, they kind of move onto the next conversation,'' she said. ''But if I say this to the patients there, they all have a story to tell me.''
Last Wednesday morning, Dr. Jennifer Hays went on a television talk show to explain why a large federal study of estrogen therapy for menopausal women had been stopped. As a principal investigator for the study, which found that the drug slightly increased the risk of stroke, she wanted women to know that there was no reason to panic, and she invited viewers to send her questions by e-mail. Dr. Hays, the director of the Center for Women's Health at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, expected to hear mostly from women over 50 who, like those in the study, were taking estrogen alone because they had undergone a hysterectomy. But when she opened the deluge of e-mail messages that followed her television appearance, many were from women in their 40's or younger. Most had had their uteruses and ovaries removed for medical reasons, plunging them into menopause, and they had been told that they would take estrogen for the rest of their lives.
''I see no reason why this study would change my opinion that having an abortion increases the risk about 30 percent over not having gotten pregnant in the first place,'' Dr. Brind said. ''I believe also that this particular study, were the data properly handled and reported, would have come up with a result in agreement with that.'' Dr. Michels said that most of the abortions occurred more than 10 years before the breast cancer diagnosis, and that analyzing only the earliest abortions made no difference in the results. But she acknowledged that Dr. Brind raised a crucial issue. ''In analyzing data,'' she said, ''we have to be careful what we are comparing and take account of whether a woman who has had an induced abortion misses out on the potential benefit she would have had if she had a full-term pregnancy. ''We did analyze the data keeping this issue in mind,'' Dr. Michels said, ''and we did not find that an incomplete pregnancy deprives a woman of the protection a full-term pregnancy would have conferred.''
Supporters of the status quo argue that passing new, tissue-specific legislation is unnecessary. They point to science's internal oversight mechanisms: academic institutions (and many private companies) have institutional review boards that decide whether consent is needed for tissue research. There are many professional guidelines, like the American Medical Association's code of ethics (which requires doctors to inform patients if their tissue samples might lead to profits). But guidelines aren't laws; they are suggestions. And many tissue rights supporters say these internal mechanisms don't work. At this point, there is no uniformity, no standard and no guidance for how to proceed when it comes to consent and tissue research. Some institutions -- like the Fox Chase Cancer Center -- ask permission to keep tissues and let patients specify what research their samples will be used for. But others don't. The norm is still a sentence or two saying leftover blood and tissue can be used for education and research. When it comes to profits, some consent forms come right out and say, ''We may give or sell the specimen and certain medical information about you.'' Others skip disclosure or say, ''You will receive no reimbursement for donating tissue.'' Still others admit confusion: ''Your sample will be owned by [the university].. . .It is unknown whether you will be able to gain (participate in) any financial compensation (payment) from any benefits gained from this research.''
''You can avoid this cancer if you find a polyp and remove it before it becomes a cancer or find a very early cancer and remove it,'' she said. ''Though it's important to know that there are variations in technique and ability, over all I would hate for patients to avoid colonoscopy because they fear their doctors won't take enough time and it won't be worth the effort.''
For many women, the choice to quit or continue hormone therapy will not be easy. Some said yesterday that increased risk of breast cancer, heart disease and blood clots found in the study did not seem great enough to warrant going off hormones. ''I've read the reports,'' said Rosemary Herpel, 59, of Shaker Heights, Ohio. ''We're talking about 8 more people in 10,000 who got breast cancer. I just think that's not significant enough to make me stop. I'm very concerned with bone loss. I have friends who haven't taken hormones, and they are experiencing bone loss.'' Janice Kennedy, 56, a third-grade teacher in Lima, Ohio, said: ''I'm really not buying what they're selling. I know their studies have documented numbers, but for me, hormone replacement has been beneficial.'' Ms. Kennedy sees her doctor once a year and has regular mammograms and pap tests. Because she is on a low-dose estrogen patch, and progestin in pill form, and there is no breast cancer in her family, she feels safe.
He predicted that the Maya children would face a greatly increased risk for a wide variety of ailments. Two recent studies of children in the United States indicate that overweight children are more likely to develop early warning signs for diabetes and heart disease. The results come at a time of growing concern among health professionals about childhood obesity. Studies indicate that American children are two to three times as likely to be overweight as they were 30 years ago, said Dr. Stephen R. Daniels, a professor of pediatrics and environmental health at the Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center and the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine. Dr. Daniels said lifestyle developments in recent years -- like increased computer use, a decline in physical activity and poorer eating habits -- had contributed to the change. ''From an evolutionary context going back thousands of years, it makes sense that storing energy as fat was an advantage for humans,'' Dr. Daniels said. ''Now the environment's changed, but our biology hasn't.''
To that end, Dr. Yang and the university are moving on to the next frontier in genetic science with the opening of a $10.6 million center at the Storrs campus to study regenerative biology. The dedication of the center -- the Advanced Technology Laboratory in the Bio Science Complex -- on Monday marked UConn's attempt to become a major player in the highly competitive field. But just as cloning touched off a debate on the moral implications of the science, regenerative biology relies heavily on another hot-button issue: stem cell technology. While the new center will focus its research on animal stem cells, Dr. Yang said that each member of its team of experts has a specific area of focus. This means that if the political environment allows, they can shift to studying human stem cells without missing a beat, he said. Dr. Yang said that he hoped eventually to take what they have learned about therapeutic cloning in animals and apply it to humans, along the way finding clues about how to treat such degenerative diseases as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's.
The supplements appeared to have no effect in preventing heart disease or stroke or in causing any health problems.
Dr. Salick began opening for-profit centers in 1986 in California, then expanded to Florida. He says that his niche is the 24-hour comprehensive service that patients can get in his centers, and that his deep knowledge of managed care, prevalent in California for a decade but still fairly new to this area, gives him an edge. He also provides the financing, badly needed by hospitals with dwindling resources, to get clinics off the ground. ''I have a highly credible reputation of running very cost effective facilities,'' Dr. Salick said in an interview. ''You have wonderful hospitals and wonderful doctors in New York, but there is a breakdown in the delivery system. You go to these places at nine at night and no one is there. Cancer is a disease that happens to go on 24 hours a day. All these other hospitals are doing is opening a center and sticking some doctors in there.''
The start of summer is a busy time for Dr. Robert S. Gotlin, director of orthopedic and sports rehabilitation at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. That is when his waiting room swells with patients who want to see him about their knees. ''The complaints of knee pain are directly proportional to the change in seasons,'' Dr. Gotlin said. ''People run more in the spring and summer, and the pain usually comes from upping the mileage. It's hard not to overdo it when the weather is so nice.'' Knee pain, Dr. Gotlin added, ''is catching up to back pain as the No.1 physical disability seen by sports medicine physicians.'' Overdoing it, as Dr. Gotlin put it, is a major cause of sore knees and can lead to osteoarthritis. Knee pain can also result from torn ligaments, supporting excess weight and mechanical problems like having one leg shorter than the other or misalignment of the knee.
Protecting children from endocrine disrupters in cosmetics and prescription drugs may also be difficult in the near future. In 1989, the Food and Drug Administration proposed allowing up to 10,000 units of estrogen per ounce of cosmetic, the approximate oral daily dose of hormone replacement therapy for postmenopausal women. Dr. Tiwary said that in the early 1990's he filed an adverse drug report with the agency about hormone-containing shampoos but that to his knowledge, it never came to anything. Reached by e-mail, a spokeswoman for the F.D.A. said that the agency was ''aware of some reports describing premature sexual devolepment'' with shampoos but that it had concluded that ''there is no reason for consumers to be concerned.'' At this time, ''placental materials are neither prohibited by cosmetic regulations nor restricted'' by the F.D.A., she wrote. Dr. Dedekian said that while prohormones like Andro are no longer commercially available, lax regulation of so-called compounding pharmacies allows the manufacture and sale of concentrated testosterone creams, like the one affecting his patient, without government oversight.
Architect, utility worker, maid: heart attack is the great leveler, and in those first fearful moments, three New Yorkers with little in common faced a single common threat. But in the months that followed, their experiences diverged. Social class -- that elusive combination of income, education, occupation and wealth -- played a powerful role in Mr. Miele's, Mr. Wilson's and Ms. Gora's struggles to recover. Class informed everything from the circumstances of their heart attacks to the emergency care each received, the households they returned to and the jobs they hoped to resume. It shaped their understanding of their illness, the support they got from their families, their relationships with their doctors. It helped define their ability to change their lives and shaped their odds of getting better. Class is a potent force in health and longevity in the United States. The more education and income people have, the less likely they are to have and die of heart disease, strokes, diabetes and many types of cancer. Upper-middle-class Americans live longer and in better health than middle-class Americans, who live longer and better than those at the bottom. And the gaps are widening, say people who have researched social factors in health.
Officials of Medtronic and St. Jude said they were awaiting the publication of the group's report before commenting on it. A spokesman for Boston Scientific, which agreed earlier this year to acquire Guidant, said recently that the company was considering which of the Guidant panel's recommendations to adopt. In recent months, all those companies have started regularly disclosing more detailed data about product performance as part of their regular reports to doctors. The report by the Heart Rhythm Society is also expected to urge doctors and others to be more aggressive in reporting device-related problems and to recommend that a unit be checked at the time of a patient's death to determine if its failure might have been a factor. In addition, the group is expected to recommend that better guidelines be developed for doctors to use when determining whether to remove a unit that is the subject of a recall or an alert. One concern is that the risk of infection from replacement surgery can, in some cases, outweigh the risk posed by a device, especially for patients whose lives are not dependent on a heart unit.
Levine's patients may feel as if they have all the time in the world, but in fact they have about 15 minutes if they're here for an illness and a half-hour if they're here for a yearly exam. Levine, who is fairly obsessed with checks against negligence that he calls tickler systems, can squeeze an enormous amount of medical care into that small amount of time. ''When I look in an ear, I assume that there's an infection or fluid in the eustachian tube, and then I have to convince myself there's not. I create pathology and then eliminate it,'' he says. He maintains this vigilance throughout his entire day, which is usually pretty long. Levine has worked with the Flier Medical Group in the medically overblessed suburb of Brookline, Mass., since he graduated from medical school seven years ago. During the week, he leaves his house at 6 a.m. and arrives at his office around 6:45. Between 7 and 9, he answers calls, e-mail and letters, completes paperwork and goes over his schedule for the day.
It is a depressing article of faith among the overweight and those who treat them that 95 percent of people who lose weight regain it -- and sometimes more -- within a few months or years. That statistic has been quoted widely over the last four decades, in Congressional hearings, diet books, research papers and seminars. And it is the reason so many people approach dieting with a sense of hopelessness. But in fact, obesity researchers say, no one has any idea how many people can lose weight and keep it off. Now, as researchers try to determine how many people have succeeded, they are also studying the success stories for lessons that might inspire others to try. ''That 95 percent figure has become clinical lore,'' said Dr. Thomas Wadden, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania. There is no basis for it, he said, ''but it's part of the mythology of obesity.''
The trial involved 384 patients in the United States and Canada with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. The shark cartilage extract was given as a liquid which the patients drank twice a day. Results were somewhat more promising, though far less definitive, for flaxseed. That study, led by scientists at Duke University Medical Center, involved 161 men with prostate cancer who were scheduled to have their prostates removed. After the glands were removed about a month later, the tumors were studied. It was found that the tumors of the men who had taken the flaxseed had been growing about 30 percent to 40 percent more slowly than for those who did not. The ginseng study suggested that the herb might help fight fatigue, which is common in people with cancer. The study involved 282 patients with various types of cancer. About one quarter of the patients who took one of the two higher doses of powdered extract of ginseng root, either 1,000 or 2,000 milligrams a day, reported that their fatigue had become ''moderately better'' or ''much better.'' That contrasted with only one 10th of those who took either a smaller amount of ginseng or a placebo.
Screening for disease has two parts: usually a physical exam and what is known as a review of systems, a set of questions used to elicit symptoms of a disease the patient is at risk for. This patient, with his high blood pressure, high cholesterol and stroke, would be at risk for a heart attack, another stroke and, like many men his age, prostate problems. I should have asked about these at every visit and once a year done a rectal exam to assess prostate size and look for cancer. From reviewing the patient's chart, it appeared I had limited my attention and my exam to his immediate problems -- overlooking some of the other risks he faced. I had asked him if he had problems urinating, and he had said no. I don't think he was lying; I think he assumed that his bathroom difficulty was just one more skill stolen from him by his stroke. So much of the damage from that cerebral vascular accident was clearly visible and public. I suspect he felt that this disability, at least, could remain private.
A study of 10,000 patients at the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program in Oakland, Calif., found that those who chose their physician were more satisfied with their care and made more outpatient appointments, said Dr. Joe Selby, the director of research at the Oakland branch of Kaiser. The results were published in the November 1991, issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association. Now Dr. Selby is tracking 1,400 patients to ''explore the best way to help people choose doctors so they  will come when they need help and be compliant with their treatment.'' ''At least in the long run, you would expect a better health outcome,'' he said. No one looks to be scolded about losing weight, smoking or drinking. One woman commented that her husband, a diabetic, had not been to a doctor in years because he had yet to lose 10 pounds that a doctor told him to shed.
The report says that ''22 percent of the population has a diagnosable mental disorder,'' as suggested by several recent studies. It also says that ''mental illness, including suicide, is the second leading cause of disability,'' after heart disease. But, it says, ''nearly two-thirds of all people with diagnosable mental disorders do not seek treatment.'' The statistics, derived from studies published in the last few years, will probably not surprise psychiatrists, psychologists or other specialists in mental health. But the report is significant because it meticulously analyzes huge amounts of data and  puts the imprimatur of the government on the findings, just as the surgeon general's report on smoking and health did in 1964. Mental disorders are defined in the report as health conditions marked by alterations in thinking, mood or behavior that cause distress or impair a person's ability to function. They include Alzheimer's disease, depression, attention-deficit or hyperactivity disorder and phobias.
It was a familiar story to those who study public health. The great killers of the 19th century were also controlled by a collection of societal changes, like maintaining clean water supplies and quarantining the sick, resulting in declines in diseases like tuberculosis, cholera and diphtheria before there were drugs to treat the illnesses or vaccines to prevent them. Dr. Omenn predicted that diseases like cancer, arthritis, Alzheimer's disease and psychiatric diseases would be controlled not by a wonder drug like a penicillin but by a mixture of preventive measures and treatments, some of which would involve changes in diet and behavior that might seem almost mundane. Nonetheless, cardiovascular diseases remain a leading cause of death in the United States, with heart disease the No. 1 killer and strokes No. 3. The disease control centers noted that more could be done to control the diseases even without new medical discoveries simply by getting the risk factors under control.
Candace Talmadge was determined to get through menopause without using hormones, and she tried just about every alternative treatment she could find, like soy tablets, herbs and acupuncture, a chiropractor and even an anti-anxiety medication. Two months ago, Ms. Talmadge's doctor suggested that she consider hormone therapy, and she relented. ''There are always risks to any medication you take, whether it's traditional or nontraditional,'' said Ms. Talmadge, 51, an author from Lancaster, Tex. ''But I've been going through hell. I think my doctor's attitude was, 'Do the benefits for you, right now, outweigh the risks?' '' Three and a half years after a landmark study stunned physicians by finding that hormone therapy had serious risks and did not prevent heart disease in postmenopausal women, many women continue to turn to hormones for relief. Many gynecologists continue to prescribe them as a first-line therapy for severe menopausal symptoms. Debates over the study's findings remain heated, with doctors divided between those who believe in the power of hormone therapy to protect the heart and relieve menopausal symptoms and those who think that any heart benefits have been discredited.
Meanwhile, opponents of the breast implant litigation will seize upon the new report as evidence that the tort system is badly flawed, inflicting billions of dollars in unwarranted costs on an innocent industry. But the court cases, and women's decisions about implants, had to proceed at a time when evidence was sparse and conflicting. The companies, marketing a product they could not prove to be safe, elected to settle rather than risk heavy jury verdicts. If the end result was unfair to them, that still does not add up to an excuse for radical restriction of consumer recourse in the nation's imperfect but indispensable legal system.
REMEDIES
Mary Wolff's office is a cluttered space in Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. If her windows were clean, they would look out on the Hispanic community of northern Manhattan, where the girls she has been studying live. There is a simple solution to the problem of early puberty, she says: ''Have your daughters play soccer.'' In other words, keep them active and at a healthy weight. Wolff, a professor of community and preventive medicine at Mount Sinai, is one of a group of researchers who believe that puberty is ''strongly associated with obesity.'' The pendulum of parental concern is constantly swinging, and for years we worried that our children were starving themselves to look like Kate Moss. That took our attention away from the fact that while anorexia is a very real problem for many girls, too many of our children are too fat. They are watching too much television, eating too much junk food and spending too little time running around outside. As a result, the percentage of children ages 6 to 11 who are considered overweight nearly doubled during the past 20 years.
''This study just muddied the waters for women who don't have access to health care,'' she said. ''The real issue isn't mammography. In my opinion, it's an adequate screening tool, and women have bought into it.'' ''The real issue,'' Ms. Brown said, ''is what happens after the mammogram for the woman who has just been diagnosed and who does not have access to treatment.''
''People who are frightened hold on to these things as if they were the final truth, and science moves so fast, you can't hang your hat on each new study,'' Dr. Holland said. ''It would be better, in a way, if we could wait until we had several studies, and a real conclusion, before presenting it to the public, but that's not how it works. Even if the study is flawed, like the one that found that women in support groups survived longer, people may want to believe it because it's such an appealing idea.'' Many women said that they would rejoice if participation in support groups extended survival but that that was not why they joined. ''I go to my doctor to keep me alive,'' said a woman in Washington. ''I go to my group to keep me going. And I need both of them. It's true, in the back of my mind, I had that study about women in groups living an extra 18 months, but that's not the reason I come.''
''Like going to the moon,'' Dr. Trehan said of the procedure. Minimally invasive robotically controlled cardiac surgery is the latest frontier in heart surgery. It is slowly catching on in the United States, as doctors and industry work to bring the cost down and the clinical value up. But this is India, where those who can afford it have been accustomed to going abroad for state-of-the-art care, often provided by Indian doctors who have migrated themselves. Dr. Trehan was one of them. He went to the United States in 1969, and by the mid-1980's was earning over $1.5 million a year as a Manhattan heart surgeon. But then he did what few Indian doctors do: he came back, prompted largely by the Indians who kept showing up on his operating table and asking why they could not get the same quality of care back home. He was driven, he said, by ''a certain amount of arrogance -- a kind of national pride.''
But it is not compelling to Dr. Ackerman. Epidemiological data on melanoma, he says, are imprecise and inaccurate. In searching for the causes of other cancers, he argues, epidemiological data have led researchers astray, and by their nature they cannot demonstrate cause and effect. Stay out of the sun, Dr. Ackerman advises, but do it to avoid premature aging of the skin. If you are very fair, avoiding sunlight will also help prevent squamous cell carcinoma, a less dangerous cancer. But it would be a mistake, he says, to assume that avoiding sunlight or using sunscreens will offer protection from melanoma. Dr. Ackerman has been enamored of the skin and its diseases since his earliest days as a resident at Columbia. Studying dermatology, to him, was like taking courses in art history. ''If you know a certain artist you can recognize him again,'' he said. ''So it is with lesions in the skin. A lesion is like a painting or a piece of sculpture.''
''Obviously the dose should be defended,'' said Dr. Harold Nelson, an allergist at the National Jewish Medical and Research Center in Denver who described himself as a friend of Dr. Togias's. He and other researchers said Dr. Nelson had a good professional reputation. ''You have to say why you're using a particular dose, what the background science is for the selection of the dose,'' Dr. Nelson said. Although typical doses of approved drugs used by inhalation, like the asthma drug albuterol, are thousandths the size of that given Ms. Roche, Dr. Nelson said there was no reason that inhaling a gram of an active substance should be inherently dangerous. But the Hopkins review board was criticized by the federal oversight agency for not questioning the use of hexamethonium, for not finding the earlier literature after Dr. Togias had missed it, and for allowing the chemical to be called a ''medication'' in the consent document signed by the volunteers.
''Dr. Patrick Walsh's Guide to Surviving Prostate Cancer,'' by Patrick C. Walsh and Janet Farrar Worthington, Warner Books, $25.95. ''The Prostate Book: Sound Advice on Symptoms and Treatment,'' by Dr. Stephen N. Rous, W. W. Norton &amp; Company, $26.95. ''Never underestimate prostate cancer,'' Dr. Patrick Walsh, a professor of urology at Johns Hopkins, warns in his book. ''It is a formidable adversary, which springs up in several places at once inside the prostate.'' Indeed, with an average of seven separate tumors growing inside of it, a cancerous prostate is a challenge that must be met if the patient is not to be one of the estimated 31,500 Americans who die of it each year. The most effective treatment, if the cancer is confined to the prostate, is still radical prostatectomy, the total removal of the walnut-sized gland which provides a third of the fluid that makes up semen. But as good as it is, this surgical approach is, as the authors of the two books agree, intended for relatively younger, otherwise healthy men who are not only curable but who can reasonably expect to live at least another 15 or so years.
WHEN Kaiser Permanente tries to persuade members to join its online service, the health care giant likes to talk about its advice-nurse feature, which guarantees a response to questions within 24 hours. It is a popular part of the service. So when the system broke down and e-mail messages from members started to pile up last summer, Kaiser technicians worked to solve the problem, and fast. The technicians patched together a program that allowed them to start  sending e-mail messages again -- just not in a way anyone had intended. More than 850 messages were sent to 17 people -- none the intended recipients -- some containing personal medical information. Kaiser, which has drawn 250,000 members to its online service, is considered part of the vanguard when it comes to taking medicine into the digital age, and its patients appear happy with the service. And evidence nationwide suggests there is broad enthusiasm among patients and, for the most part, doctors, for the growing practice of using the Internet for everything from scheduling appointments and renewing prescriptions to obtaining personalized advice and test results. Medical providers like Kaiser are also moving quickly toward the day when each patient will have a page on the company's Web site containing medical history and links to sources of information.
Hwang Woo Suk, South Korea's disgraced star scientist, could present no evidence to corroborate his landmark claim that he had cloned human embryos and extracted from them stem cells that genetically match patients, a university panel said Thursday. The announcement by the panel, from Seoul National University where Dr. Hwang did his research, suggested that he did not just grossly exaggerate his work in an article published in the journal Science in June, but fabricated the entire paper. ''So far we could not find any stem cells regarding Dr. Hwang's 2005 paper that genetically match the DNA of patients,'' said Roe Jung Hye, the university's dean of research affairs, in a statement. ''According to our judgment, Dr. Hwang's team doesn't have scientific data to prove that it has produced such stem cells.'' There was no immediate comment from Dr. Hwang, who apologized last week for falsifications in his paper and resigned from the university.
There are certainly some men for whom prostate cancer is a devastating illness, and it shortens the quality and length of their life. There are also some men who are harmed by having been screened. If you take somebody who's an otherwise healthy, happy 55-year-old or 60-year-old, and you find that they have a small area of prostate cancer, you pull out their prostate gland surgically. If in doing so, you make them impotent or incontinent or both, you've harmed their quality of life, and it may be that that cancer never would have shortened their life. It would have grown slowly and they would have had a heart attack at 75. I begin with a discussion with each patient. But I normally start screening at age 50. Once someone has had two normal P.S.A.'s in a row, I'll get them every other year, because there's some pretty good evidence that that is as good at detecting cancer as doing it every year. You save money and you save worry.
''Most people aren't eating the skin,'' he said. ''And when salmon is cooked, you lose a considerable amount of fat, and so the levels go down quite a bit.'' While the new study involved contaminants in raw fillets, including skin, Dr. Troxell said even the levels in raw salmon were not worrisome. PCB's, or polychlorinated biphenyls, are a family of chemical compounds that were banned in the 1970's. The environmental agency says they are a probable carcinogen, though that has never been proved in humans. They were once used as coolants and lubricants and to make products like plastics and paints. The other contaminants measured in the study include dioxins -- formed, for example, when chlorine-containing chemicals, like plastics, are burned -- and two banned pesticides, toxaphene and dieldrin. The salmon in the study, obtained from wholesalers and supermarkets in Europe and in North and South America, acquired the contaminants from their food. Farmed Atlantic salmon eat fish meal and oil from fish with higher levels of contaminants like PCB's.
Within a year, after Dr. Murray began  clearing the backlog, the crush of patients at the clinic was gone. ''In this department where in the past we were totally and completely saturated, we were now voting at the end of the day to see who would go home early,'' Dr. Murray said of family-practice section. Even the problem of dealing with hypochondriacs was alleviated, Dr. Murray said. Those patients, he said, always found a way into the doctor's office, seeing any doctor that was available. But under the new system they were confined to their own doctor. ''Then you can have an influence,'' Dr. Murray said. ''You discuss the issue with them. You say: 'You come in more than anybody else. This has got to be inconvenient. What is it that I can do to change it?' '' Of course, Dr. Murray and others said, doctors never had to have a backlog in the first place.
Ms. Buchanan said that sort of care made all the difference for her. After learning she had cancer, she decided to have both breasts removed. She had a strong family history of breast cancer and was terrified that she might get cancer in her other breast. And she decided to have breast reconstruction at the same time as her mastectomies. Dr. Dultz and Dr. Marc Alan Drimmer, a Princeton plastic surgeon, did the operation. ''When I woke up after the surgery, she was holding my left hand and he was holding my right hand,'' Ms. Buchanan said. ''When I think about it, it makes me want to cry.''
JANE GOODALL arrived at the Gombe Preserve on the shores of Lake Tanganyika 40 years ago to study chimpanzee behavior. Her first important observation -- that the chimpanzees picked and stripped small twigs to dig up termites -- challenged the established wisdom that humans were distinguished from all other animals by the ability to make and use tools. Dr. Goodall is still charting the connections between people and chimpanzees. But since 1986, her work has taken a new turn. Alarmed by the rapid decline of Africa's chimpanzee population and the capture of chimpanzees in snares for bush meat, she devotes her energies to creating a small empire of programs that relate to wildlife conservation. The programs are Roots and Shoots, an environmental and humanitarian movement for young people in 57 countries; sanctuaries in Africa for chimpanzees orphaned by poachers; ChimpanZoo, an international research project dedicated to the study of chimpanzees in captive settings; the Jane Goodall Center for Primate Studies at the University of Minnesota; and a reforestation and development project called Tacare near Gombe in Tanzania.
A team led by a St. Louis neurosurgeon has performed the first surgery on a human using superconducting magnets to direct a surgical instrument into the brain, around corners or on a curved path, to reach and perform a biopsy on a tumor. The technique enabled the surgeons to eliminate the requirement -- and the danger -- of pushing a needle  through important areas of the brain. Dr. Ralph Dacey, head of neurosurgery at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, said the new magnetic-surgery system is less invasive and should prove safer than traditional methods. It combines computers, magnetic resonance imaging (M.R.I.), X-rays and small superconducting magnets to place surgical instruments or medication in precisely the right spot without disturbing sensitive areas nearby. Dr. Donald O. Quest, a neurosurgeon at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in New York, and others said the new operating system raised the potential of developing medical treatments for illnesses like Parkinson's disease and other motor disorders centered in the brain, cancer there and elsewhere in the body and heart disease.
''The premise is, with the greater care in a trial, the quality of survival is likely to be better,'' Dr. Bleyer said. Rebecca Dresser, who teaches law and medical ethics at Washington University, said a crucial lesson of the findings was the importance of helping patients understand the purpose of clinical trials. ''You want people to understand that the primary aim is to produce knowledge to benefit people in the future,'' Dr. Dresser said. ''The notion that trials are done to benefit individual participants is incorrect.'' ''I don't want to say I'm antiresearch,'' she went on. ''But we really want people in studies to understand what it is they are doing.'' Dr. Joffe said he expected that patients would be willing to enroll in trials even if without the message that they would do better simply by being in one. They will even enroll their children. ''My personal experience is that no one is going to sacrifice their child for the purpose of research, and we don't ask that,'' he said. ''We say, 'We think it is a reasonable thing to do for your child's care.' ''
The goal is to stabilize the blood sugar, and with it, the appetite. The book promises weight loss of up to 13 pounds in the first two weeks, which some dietitians see as a red flag. ''Any time you're promised a weight loss of over a pound a week, which is the safe recommended amount, it's time to say, 'What's going on here?' '' said Dawn Jackson, a dietitian at Northwestern Memorial Wellness Institute in Chicago, who reviewed the diet for the American Dietetic Association. Yet Ms. Jackson said she liked Phases 2 and 3. In those, fiber-rich carbohydrates and unsaturated fats are gradually reintroduced. Participants are supposed to stay in Phase 2 until they reach their desired weights, then move on to Phase 3 indefinitely. But it's back to Phase 1 if they regain pounds, a step Ms. Jackson warned verged on the unhealthy. ''If you don't read it for Phase 1 and just look at the healthy menu plans in Phases 2 and 3, it's a good book for that,'' she said. ''It's definitely healthier than Atkins, but at the end of the day, if you are losing weight on this diet it's because you're eating fewer calories than you did before.''
In Nassau County, state Health Department figures show that breast cancer is diagnosed in about 1,000 women each year, and the same number in Suffolk. In both counties, breast cancer occurs more often than in other parts of the state. Statewide, there are 104.1 cases per 100,000 women, but in Nassau, the rate is 115.6 cases per 100,000 women, and in Suffolk, 118.2 cases per 100,000 women. The state's mortality rate from breast cancer is 26.7 deaths per 100,000 women each year; in Nassau, 27.4 deaths per 100,000 women and in Suffolk, 28.6 deaths per 100,000 women. Last year, Congress raised the Medicare reimbursement base rate for mammography from $69 to $81.81, but that is less than it costs a doctor to do the test, generally $100 to $150. ''Out of the reimbursement we receive,'' Dr. Fisher said, ''our expenses include paying the doctor, the nurse, the technician, the front-desk person and the person who bills the patients and collects the reimbursement. Then there's the cost of leasing the mammography equipment, developing and storing the films and file-room personnel. Most doctors aren't in it for the money, but they still have to survive.''
Dolly the cloned sheep is dead, her carcass stuffed and mounted at the Royal Museum in Edinburgh. But here on the rolling farmlands of the University of Connecticut, a couple of cloned cows are chewing their cud. It is just another lazy afternoon for Amy and Cathy, a pair of Holsteins cloned not long after Dolly was born in 1997. It has been less than seven years since cloning jumped from the science-fiction pages to the nightly news, but after that short time, the presence of cloned cows and pigs here does not cause even the slightest stir. ''It is really amazing,'' said Dr. Xiangzhong Yang, a professor in the Department of Animal Science and one of the nation's lead researchers in cloning. ''Only eight years ago, most people didn't even know cloning was possible,'' he said. ''But now, many animals have been cloned; that is not the problem. Making an animal is not of interest to us. The question is how do we use that technology.''
There are just so many questions remaining, says Richard Suzman, a program director at the National Institute on Aging. Even studies showing that, for many people, the die may be cast early in life, do not reveal how best to make changes. ''We have only a vague idea of when and where early experience links to old age or when and where to intervene,'' Dr. Suzman says. ''When it comes to changing things,'' says Dr. Skinner, the Dartmouth economist, ''we are in uncharted territory.'' The New Age This is last of four articles looking at the science of aging. The New Age Correction:  January 10, 2007, Wednesday  A chart last Wednesday with the continuation of a front-page article about links between education and longevity misstated a correlation. People with more education are more likely -- not less -- to have had at least one alcoholic drink per month.
''There's no pattern that I can find,'' Dr. Sharlip said. Of course, erectile dysfunction is a complicated problem, involving physiological and psychological aspects. For some men, none of the drugs may work; others may be taking medicines that cause problems, or have underlying medical conditions that affect potency. Indeed, impotence can  be ''one of the earliest signs that something else is not working,'' said Dr. Irwin Goldstein, director of the Center for Sexual Medicine at Boston University School of Medicine. When prescribing the drugs, a doctor should check for conditions like high blood pressure and diabetes, among others. ''An astute clinician will also try to make lifestyle modifications,'' Dr. Hellstrom said. Erectile dysfunction is more common among men who smoke, are overweight or sedentary, so encouraging them to quit smoking, lose weight or exercise can in some cases solve the problem without medication. And there are other factors to consider. An article entitled ''Viagra and Broken Hearts'' in the journal Canadian Family Physician noted that no physical cause will be identified in two-thirds of men who describe themselves as having erectile problems. ''Individual psychological and couple factors remain important causes,'' said the article, published in 2000. ''Combining medical treatments with individual, couple or sex therapy is often more helpful'' than prescribing medicine alone.
''I think we can still learn something from Bill's case,'' said Dr. Gary J. Kerkvliet, an internist at Sinai who has cared for Mr. Paliscak since 2001. Dr. Kerkvliet says he fears the C.D.C. ''has its head in the sand.'' A colleague, Dr. Tyler C. Cymet, who spent months talking to the confirmed anthrax survivors and their doctors, said, ''I come down strongly on the side that this is anthrax.'' Few diseases cause ''whole-body symptoms'' as does the toxin produced by anthrax, said Dr. Cymet, who, like Dr. Kerkvliet, is an assistant professor at the Johns Hopkins medical school. The variety of symptoms Mr. Paliscak suffers would be enough for a hospital ward full of patients. His limbs swell with fluid, pushing his previous weight of 185 pounds as high as 310. His hormone-producing glands have shut down, setting off a cascade of secondary effects. He experiences spells of overwhelming fatigue that can last for several days. His legs regularly are gripped by painful convulsions, the thigh muscles shaking as he struggles to hold them still.
The egg extraction itself is a surgical procedure in which a thin needle is inserted through the vagina into the ovary to retrieve the eggs and liquid from the follicles. Risks include adverse responses to anesthesia, infection, bleeding or the inadvertent puncture of an organ. It is the long-term risks, both physical and psychological, that are harder to assess. Questions have been raised about whether extraction may jeopardize the donor's fertility, and critics worry about the potential psychological harm to a donor of eggs as a young woman who later finds that she is unable to have children. And since egg donors go through much the same process as women trying to conceive in vitro, there are concerns that they may be prone to the higher rates of certain cancers that some studies have found among infertility patients. Still, said Dr. James A. Grifo, director of the division of reproductive endocrinology at the New York University School of Medicine, ''There is no credible evidence of long-lasting effects or health consequences down the line.''
Dr. Meg Durbin  Internist and pediatrician, Palo Alto (Calif.) Medical Foundation We've known for a long time that there's no data to suggest that self breast-exam helps people live longer. But it's heresy to say that out loud. I said it at a conference of women, and I nearly got thrown out of the room. Having said that, there are also studies showing that 50 percent of women find their own breast cancers. So it's a great dilemma. I don't discourage it, but I don't know that I encourage it as much as I should. Part of it is the exhaustion that comes with going over this with every single woman. If I knew for sure that breast self-exam was known to decrease morbidity and mortality, I would probably more enthusiastically recommend it. The data supports the idea of women over 50 having mammograms every one or two years. For women in their 40's, we say, let's talk about it. If she doesn't object, I would err on the side of doing annual mammograms.
Others were less enthusiastic, pointing out that finding subgroups after the fact who may have benefited suggests a hypothesis for future studies, not evidence of an effect. ''We try to teach everybody that you have to identify beforehand what's the primary outcome,'' said Dr. William Weiner, the director of the Maryland Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorder Center and a professor of neurology at the University of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore, referring to the measure of success determined before the study began. ''In this case, they picked a subjective assessment by the patients themselves, which I think is a very good one.'' And so, Dr. Weiner said, when the patients noticed no improvement, ''the study was negative.'' In addition, Dr. Langston said, even if a subsequent study confirmed that the surgery had an effect on the condition in younger patients before they took their medicine in the morning, and even if there was a way of preventing the terrible side effect, the operation would still hardly be a breakthrough. Parkinson's disease is almost always a disease of the elderly, he noted, adding that well under 10 percent of patients who would be candidates for the surgery are younger than 60.
Geri Barish, of 1 in 9: The Long Island Breast Cancer Action Coalition and executive director of Hewlett House, a resource center for breast cancer patients, said she was pleased with Dr. Novello's announcement about the more detailed maps, but she was vigorous in her criticism of the county maps. ''They took a million dollars to develop these maps and they flushed it down the toilet,'' she said. ''We still don't have data on residential histories or occupations, which are vital to understanding where and how and when cancer develops.'' But Dr. Novello said: ''You can't do miracles. The women want to solve breast cancer issues right away, but we have to start with one thing and move to another. The science is important. We plan to look at everything, including occupational and residential histories, going back to their grandmothers and great-grandmothers.'' The county maps were developed using the Geographic Information System, a software program that can manipulate and analyze data, display the relationships of geographic locations and look for factors associated with public health issues.
''It is clearly an epidemic,'' said Nancy Chockley, president of the National Institute for Health Care Management Foundation, a research and lobbying group financed by health plans and Government grants. And business is paying a good part of the bill, with much of the rest adding to taxpayers' costs for Medicare and Medicaid. Obesity cost the nation $99.2 billion in 1995, according to an estimate last year by Anne Wolf of the University of Virginia and Graham Colditz of the Harvard School of Public Health. That statistic combines the costs of doctor visits, lost productivity, absenteeism and hospital stays. It does not include $33 billion in annual spending for weight-loss products and services. ''The increase in loss of productivity was phenomenal,'' Ms. Wolf said. ''People were sicker, missing more days of work. It looks like people who are overweight became more obese, and those who were obese became more so.''
Breast cancer survivors seem to report the problem more than people with other cancers, doctors say, but they suspect this may be because the breast cancer patients are such a large, well-organized group with many channels of communication. The research has also centered on breast cancer because of its high survival rate, though the effect probably occurs in people with other cancers, because they receive the same kinds of chemotherapy, the researchers said. The studies suggest that the risk of mental impairment -- what some patients call ''chemo brain'' or, in Canada, ''chemo fog'' -- rises with the intensity of the chemotherapy. In one of the first studies of the side effect, researchers at the Netherlands Cancer Institute in Amsterdam found that women who received high-dose chemotherapy for breast cancer were eight and a half times as likely to show signs of mental impairment as breast cancer survivors who had been treated with radiation or surgery but no chemotherapy.
Primary care doctors already are overstretched. Urgent issues have to take precedence during office visits. Increasingly, this means preventive care gets the short shrift. In a recent study of family practice patients in Michigan, only 3 percent of the women and 5 percent of the men over 50 had completed age-appropriate cancer screening tests. Nationwide, less than a third of older adults have had their stool tested within the past two years for occult blood, one of the first signs of colon cancer. Only 33 percent have ever had a sigmoidoscopy, even though recent research suggests that performing this test more frequently could detect more intestinal cancers. As medical knowledge proliferates, so do treatment options, which means that primary care doctors today are more likely than ever to fall short of providing the standard of care. In a study published in June of 6,700 patients in 12 metropolitan areas, researchers found that the medical care for 30 different disorders, including diabetes, alcoholism and pneumonia, met national guidelines only slightly more than half the time. Are doctors becoming victims of their own successes?
Among normally nourished children and adolescents, getting enough calcium and vitamin D can make a 5 percent difference in the density of their bones. But only an estimated 25 percent of boys (and 10 percent of girls) ages 9 to 17 get the recommended intake of 1,300 milligrams of calcium a day. ''The issue for boys is that bone health is not part of their thinking, nor their parents', and often not their pediatricians','' said Dr. Anne Klibanski, professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School and chairwoman of the institutes' consensus conference. ''For girls, calcium intake is associated with high amounts of dairy intake and fat and that becomes an impediment for having enough calcium in the diet,'' she added. Other factors that hamper bone building are smoking and drinking alcohol excessively (more than two drinks a day). Getting enough calcium later in life can also help to prevent bone loss. In adults over 50, only 60 percent of men (and 50 percent of women) meet the recommended intake of calcium.
DR. SANTORO added: ''I think the tragedy of overtreatment lies in the past, when we were taking women to the operating room for open biopsies when we found something suspicious on the mammogram. The way we do biopsies now is far less invasive.'' Ms. Pearson and the doctors who were interviewed for this article said that the Lancet study mainly bolstered the beliefs of the naysayers, mavericks who have never put much stock in mammography. But they also thought that, in general, the public may be waking up to the complexities of a common disease that is still not well understood. ''People ask me, 'What's the real deal here?' '' Ms. Pearson said. ''There's a sort of awareness that the mammography issue is not as nice and tidy as we'd like it to be.'' Asked about the impact of the Lancet study, Zora Brown, the director of the Breast Cancer Resource Committee, sighed. Ms. Brown's group addresses the need for more aggressive diagnosis and treatment in African-American women, who suffer disproportionately from breast cancer mortality.
Dr. Catherine S. Berkey, a biostatistician at Harvard Medical School, has in turn focused much of her work on adolescent health, which led her to research obesity and puberty. Earlier this year, she published a study showing that diet and body size as early in life as age 1 or 2 are predictors of the onset of puberty. But obesity causes all sorts of other bad things too -- diabetes and heart disease, for example, not to mention social problems -- and that knowledge hasn't resulted in a change in eating habits, so confirmation of a link between obesity and early puberty probably won't make a difference, either. Both Herman-Giddens and Campbell point to the school cafeteria as the best example of the fact that society does not respond quickly to complicated lifestyle change, no matter how compelling the scientific evidence. ''I think it's outrageous that schools have sold out to the soda companies,'' Herman-Giddens says.
''The things that lower C.R.P. levels include diet, exercise and smoking cessation,'' Dr. Ridker said --  strategies long known to cut heart attack risk. Studies have shown that statin drugs, prescribed to lower cholesterol, can also lower C.R.P. This research raises the tantalizing possibility that statins may be used to prevent heart attacks even in people whose cholesterol levels are normal. But Dr. Ridker cautioned that the evidence was still too preliminary to warrant such use of statins. He said he hoped soon to launch a nationwide study of statins in people with low cholesterol but high C-reactive protein levels. Inflammation may also be important in diabetes. Dr. Ridker and others have found that elevated C.R.P. levels are associated with a higher-than-average risk of developing Type 2 diabetes -- the kind that occurs in adults. In diabetes, excess body fat -- a major risk factor for the disease -- may be part of the inflammatory picture. Fat cells produce cytokines, the proteins that promote inflammation. Studies have shown that people who develop Type 2 diabetes have relatively high levels of these cytokines. Researchers think the cytokines may interfere with the body's ability to use its own insulin, thus bringing on diabetes.
No new cases of anthrax were reported here today, though tests of workers in the most recently discovered contaminated sites are not finished. The worker at the State Department's Virginia mail center remained hospitalized in serious but stable condition, as did two postal workers from the Brentwood center. Because the State Department worker told doctors he had never been to the Brentwood station, the White House's domestic security chief, Tom Ridge, said today that ''the $64,000 question'' was whether that single letter to Mr. Daschle's office -- which officials said was taped so tightly that it had to be opened with scissors -- spread contamination throughout the mail system, or whether there were other letters that have not been found. Laurie Groen, the spokeswoman for the office of the chief postal inspector, said the Postal Service was assembling a team of inspectors who will go through the mail ''after it's deemed safe'' to look for letters or packages that might have been sent with anthrax.
''I was amazed by the size of the effect,'' Dr. Robinson said. ''Being a scientist, I can entertain the possibility that maybe we're just lucky. At the same time, I feel that maybe there's something there.'' He is now conducting a similar study among children in 12 schools to see if he gets similar results. But Dr. Robinson and others quickly point out that curbing television watching is no magic bullet. ''Television is a convenient target,'' said Dr. Robert Whitaker, a pediatric obesity expert at the Children's Hospital Medical Center in Cincinnati. ''But will kids in America get lean if we turn off the TV? That's a different question.'' Some experts have proposed that a combination of education and good eating habits, encouragement to exercise and programs to discourage children from watching television would make a difference. Dr. Gortmaker tried such an approach, with sixth and seventh graders in 10 schools. He found a slight decrease in obesity among the girls and no effect among the boys.
Dr. Khan found that in only 48 percent of the 52 clinical trials was the antidepressant superior to the placebo. Does this really mean that antidepressants are on average no better than placebos for depression? In a word, no. It all depends on how depression is defined and what kind of depressed patients are included in the clinical trials. Unlike a disease like H.I.V., which can be diagnosed by a simple blood test, the cause of depression is unknown; it is a syndrome that is diagnosed based on a cluster of symptoms like sad mood, low self-esteem, suicidal ideation and insomnia. So two depressed patients who appear the same in terms of their symptoms may be biologically very different. To get into a study, a subject needs both to meet diagnostic criteria for depression and to have the requisite symptom severity, which varies from study to study. But depressed people who enroll in antidepressant clinical trials are a very select group who are not representative of depressed patients in general. For example, they tend be only mildly or moderately depressed and are never actively suicidal. And they also are usually free of other psychiatric or medical illness that are common in the general population.
Dr. Scott said: ''We tell the doctor: 'This is what's happening to you. When you're answering questions with your hand on the doorknob, you're giving the message with your body that you couldn't care less about the patient.' '' The program also saved more than $12 a month for each patient offered group visits. Kaiser Permanente's administrators, convinced by the data, encouraged the formation of more groups, and there are now 39 in Kaiser Permanente clinics in the Denver area, with two more scheduled to start by March, said Marlene McKenzie, who coordinates the program. Elsewhere, doctors have been experimenting with group visits for patients who all have one chronic disease, like asthma, diabetes or depression. Others are offering  regularly scheduled group sessions for any of an individual doctor's patients -- even those with serious illnesses like cancer -- who want extra time with the doctor and with a health care professional, like a health psychologist or nurse, who also is present at the meetings.
''They looked up and said, 'Oh, look at those delts, let's go do this exercise,' and tried to build themselves up like him,'' he said. But, he said, if any of the boys ask him about steroids, he tells them they're crazy. ''If a kid asks me, I say, 'Dude, you're 16. You're producing so much testosterone right now, just eat like crazy, sleep a lot and work out like an animal.' '' XXL sells shakes for $3 with creatine or glutamine supplements. There's the Designer Protein shake, the Lean Body, The Iron Tek and the Iso Pure Zero Carb. A sign lists the various amounts of protein, carbohydrates and calories in grams. Dietary supplements are sold under dozens of brand names, but most over-the-counter products contain at least one of four ingredients. Protein supplements apparently do little damage but may also offer little boost. Creatine is a natural substance found in meat and fish which enhances muscle performance and growth. Androstenedione is a hormone produced by the adrenal gland and is converted by enzymes into testosterone. And ephedrine is a stimulant that is probably the most common active ingredient in herbal products advertised to fight obesity. The Food and Drug Administration has warned that ephedrine can have severe health risks.
I promised her an answer before lunch, and after completing my rounds, I sat at my computer and called up the related research. A quick review of the literature showed that the average patient had a risk of recurrence of as little as 4 percent over the first six months, and a fraction of that in the first week. I went back to the patient with the good news. Her husband could take her home the next day, given the minimal possibility of a recurrence. Standing at this woman's bedside, explaining her illness and her risk, I felt once again the excitement that feels particular to medicine at this time in history. And yet, even as I rattled off statistics, I had to acknowledge that what feels definitive now may change, as have so many certainties of the past. From a distance, medicine looks like a complete and beautiful body of knowledge. You get sick, and your doctor examines the sick part and figures out how to make it well. You live happily ever after. And there are aspects of medicine that work that way. But here, up close, where medicine is practiced, it's clear that our body of knowledge is growing rapidly, changing constantly. Every week's journals and patients challenge the old knowledge and sometimes provide the new. It's how progress is made in medicine, one answer at a time.
Although the news may not put a significant dent in the $46-billion-a-year diet industry, it did prompt a charge of the lite brigade against caloric restraint. ''The federal government had told us that your love handles were going to kill you,'' said Dan Mindus, a senior analyst for the Center for Consumer Freedom, a group financed by the food industry that took out full-page advertisements saying the ''so-called obesity epidemic'' was a hoax. ''Now people understand that being overweight is probably a little healthier than being thin,'' he said in an interview. On the group's Web site, Mr. Mindus celebrated a new day for waistline-busters. ''For those of us who enjoy a full menu of choices and don't like to be hectored about what to eat, things are looking up,'' he wrote. Paul Campos, a University of Colorado law professor who has crusaded against the diet industry, predicted that the report would unleash a backlash.
Declining to follow labeling instructions for a medical device is not a legal issue. The F.D.A. regulates drugs and devices, leaving doctors free to practice medicine using approved products in unapproved ways if they deem it medically appropriate. Supporters of the F.D.A. directives point to studies published in the European Journal of Radiology and the Annals of Plastic Surgery, which found that M.R.I.'s detected ruptured silicone implants with 89 percent accuracy while doctors detected them with 30 percent accuracy. ''These doctors are asking patients to embrace a risk that the patients don't even know exists,'' said Dr. Amy E. Newburger, a dermatologist in Scarsdale, N.Y., who was on the F.D.A. panel that reviewed silicone implants and voted against approval. She added that a study published in 2005 in the American Journal of Surgical Pathology, which found silicone in the lymph nodes of patients with implants, should serve as an impetus for doctors to remove ruptured implants. ''I am not saying that silicone is dangerous,'' she said. ''I am saying that we don't have the data to know yet.''
Julie Zawisza, a spokeswoman for the F.D.A., said the agency was considering making such changes.
Hwang claimed to have successfully cloned human embryos, which was only a technical accomplishment. It's something that's already been done in animals. If you ask me what really holds this research back, I'd say that the policies of the Bush administration have affected us more significantly than the Hwang debacle. The lack of federal support keeps many of America's brightest young scientists from working in this area. Q. Were you ever skeptical of Dr. Hwang as he reported a succession of breakthroughs in human stem cell research? A. I'd like to tell you I suspected something. I didn't. When his papers were published, I read them carefully. I was impressed by the speed and the efficiency by which he'd cloned a human embryo. We hadn't done those experiments ourselves. So I didn't know how difficult it would be in humans. I met Dr. Hwang and his colleagues several times. He didn't seem nutty, squirrely or deceptive or anything like that.
''We're clearly at the beginning of the field,'' Dr. Brewer said. ''But it's extremely encouraging.''
Some experts describe the numbers of these harmful outcomes as minuscule. However, since six million women are currently taking hormone replacement therapy, this translates into almost 25,000 cases of life-threatening (in some cases, life-terminating) side effects. (Millions more women take estrogen alone, for which the data is not yet available.) It also appears that the incidence of side effects from the combined drug increases with the length of treatment. Dr. Healy's stubborn insistence that the N.I.H. concern itself with women's health was not broadly supported at the time. In some quarters the study of women's health was somehow seen as the intrusion of ''special-interest politics'' into the business of science. In 1991, when Dr. Healy was appointed head of the N.I.H., women were usually excluded from clinical trials, a practice that she ended. Now studies sponsored by the N.I.H. must include both genders if the condition being studied affects women as well as men.
Congress gives the money with less strings attached to it than an agency which puts more strings on it. Private money is almost invariably less rigid. There is also a great need today for clinical research support. We need to supply the fiscal support for the doctors who are doing the clinical side of the experiment. That's rapidly disappearing. They are a special breed of investigative oncologists. They are the ones who think experimentally and still provide the highest quality of care. We are planning a fund to endow clinical investigators. Many of them are forced to leave the academic environment and go into private practice because there is not enough financial support for them.
''There should be some reassurance here for the general public,'' said Dr. Jonathan M. Samet, the chairman of the department of epidemiology at Johns Hopkins University's Bloomberg School of Public Health. But he quickly added that cancer was only one of many health problems that could result from pollution spawned after the attacks. Dr. Frederica P. Perera, the director of the Columbia Center for Children's Environmental Health, agreed with Dr. Samet, calling the new study ''excellent,'' but warning that some people appear to be far more sensitive to P.A.H.'s than others, and that fetuses, particularly, can be harmed from exposure to this kind of pollution.
A drug that could be one of the most promising new heart treatments in a decade is generating controversy even before it is approved, because its maker, Pfizer, plans to sell it only in combination with the company's best-selling cholesterol treatment, Lipitor. At a cardiology conference in Orlando, Fla., today, researchers sponsored by Pfizer are expected to present positive new results about the drug, which has been shown in preliminary studies to substantially raise levels of what is known as good cholesterol, a novel approach to preventing heart disease. The new drug, called torcetrapib, still must clear many hurdles before it is approved, including concerns that it may raise blood pressure, a serious side effect for a heart medicine. It would not reach the market before 2007, at the earliest. Still, scientists say the medicine could be an important new treatment, while Wall Street views its success as crucial for the future of Pfizer, the world's largest drug company.
There are at least 6 million women in this country who are asking themselves, ''What happened?'' Over the last several years they have read books and magazine articles, listened to TV pundits and talked to doctors and friends -- all of whom assured them that taking hormone replacement therapy for the rest of their lives would keep them healthy. Then one bright summer day, their world shifted. Their little daily pill carried not the promise of health but the risk of disease. How could this be? What happened is that medical practice, as it so often does, got ahead of medical science. We made observations and developed hypotheses -- and then forgot to prove them. We start with observational studies, in which researchers look at groups of people to see if we can find any clues about disease. But all this observation can do is find associations: it can't prove cause and effect.
Experts say there are probably several other contributing factors, including tiny blood clots or bubbles from the heart-lung machine, inadequate blood flow to the brain during surgery and brain inflammation. Whatever the cause, the syndrome is so pervasive that heart surgeons and cardiologists have coined a term for it: pump head. Some even go so far as to encourage some patients to seek other remedies for their heart disease. ''A high-functioning 75-year-old who I might normally be very aggressive about bypassing, I might try to manage medically or with angioplasty,'' said Dr. Richard Fuchs, a cardiologist in private practice in Manhattan, referring to powerful heart drugs and balloon procedures that open up blocked arteries without surgery. Other experts say they save this advice for patients who already have some sort of cognitive impairment. Some experts say some of the cognitive problems after bypass surgery may actually result from depression, which for reasons that are unclear develops in many patients after the surgery.
Scientists generally believe that cancers are formed by an accumulation of gene mutations that allows cells to start growing in an uncontrolled way. In some cases, however, the cause is not mutations of a gene but rather the gene's being turned on or off inappropriately. Micro-RNA may be yet a new mechanism. ''It's all more complicated than we'd like it to be,'' Dr. Golub said. Indeed, while some micro-RNA's may help cause cancer, there is evidence that others may help suppress it. Scientists and federal officials are planning a ''Human Cancer Genome Project'' to try to determine all the genetic changes linked to cancer. The project could easily be modified to look at micro-RNA's, said Dr. Harold Varmus, a planner of the project and the president of Sloan-Kettering. A better understanding of how tumors form and grow could lead to new treatments. It might be possible, for instance, to turn off micro-RNA's that contribute to tumor growth.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 98 percent of all women who have ever had intercourse have used at least one contraceptive method. Worldwide, about 76 million women currently use the birth control pill. It would be suicide for an organization that hopes to influence public policy to assert outright opposition to contraception. Instead, attacks are mostly around the periphery of the issue: on the health aspects of various forms of contraception, on the mechanism by which they work, on the efficacy of certain methods. Why is this happening? What's the nature of the opposition to something that has become so basic a part of modern life? One starting point is the Catholic Church, and especially Pope John Paul II, whose personal and philosophical magnetism revitalized Catholics around the world, especially the young. A series of reflections the pope gave between 1979 and 1984 on the ''theology of the body'' -- his vision of the integrated physical, mental and spiritual human -- has become a whole method of study within the church.
With music throbbing and her proud family looking on, Amanda Draizin, 16, strutted down a runway, wearing a little black dress and her brand new nose. Corrine Hernandez showed off her breast implants. Roslyn Kaufman displayed her slimmed-down stomach and wrinkle-free eyelids. ''They're coming to see me,'' said Ms. Kaufman, describing the 300 people tucked into Fox Hollow, a Long Island banquet hall here. ''I can't lie. They're coming to see me dancing down the runway.'' Cosmetic surgery used to be something patients hid or lied about, slipping into hospitals in the dead of night and recovering from surgery behind closed doors. But with Botox parties now mainstream and network television shows like ''Extreme Makeover'' documenting every nip, tuck and strategic enhancement, it was perhaps inevitable that before too long patients would be feting themselves with ''coming-out'' parties and surgeons would be showing off their patients like artists at a gallery opening.
The report said research showed that individual reaction to the drug depended on different factors, including stress, physiology and exposure to other agents, including pesticides and even nicotine and caffeine. That would explain why only some veterans have reported illnesses. ''One cannot rule out the possibility that long-term effects of P.B. might occur and might participate in the production of neuropsychological and other deficits reported by some''  veterans, Dr. Golomb concludes. Scientists and veterans' advocates have long pointed to pyridostigmine bromide, as well as other experimental drugs given to troops in the gulf, as one of the possible culprits in the still unexplained illnesses attributed to gulf war syndrome. Separate reports by the House and Senate identified it as such and called for further research into the drug's effects. Dr. Bernard D. Rostker, the Under Secretary of the Army who is the Pentagon's senior official overseeing gulf war illnesses, said the Pentagon had strongly supported several studies on pyridostigmine bromide, including Rand's, because of those concerns. He said the Pentagon was already spending $20 million on additional research into the possible links considered in Rand's report.
Anxious about anthrax? Scared about smallpox? Then consider this: a special strain of virus, born in the laboratory, that's made up of equal parts Ebola and H.I.V. It may sound like the diabolical creation of terrorists, but in fact it's the product of research at the University of Pennsylvania's Institute for Human Gene Therapy. If scientists working there get their way, human patients will one day ingest these microbes as a way of curing genetic disorders. The reasoning behind this idea is not as loopy as it may initially seem. What makes both Ebola and H.I.V. so lethal also happens to make them ideal candidates for doing the dirty work of cutting-edge gene therapy. Say, for example, you suffer from a genetic disorder like cystic fibrosis -- meaning that you lack the ability to produce a certain crucial protein. It may sound unimportant, but not having that one protein makes your lungs fill up with mucus to the point where you may die of respiratory infections. Enter gene therapy, which works by replacing flawed genes with fully functional genes. In the case of cystic fibrosis, the gene that can't produce the protein is chopped out of each cell, and a working gene is put in its place. The cells can now produce the needed proteins. There's no more mucus, and the lung problems disappear.
But Ms. Gomez had a warning for clinicians seeing a patient for the first time. ''I think that if I meet a new doctor and we don't have that face to face contact, I would not feel comfortable telling him all my ills,'' she said. ''I would think he's not listening and only paying attention to the computer.'' COMMENTARY Barron H. Lerner is a medical historian and an internist at Columbia University.
In her first study, Dr. Levy tested the memories of 90 healthy older people. Then she flashed positive words about aging like ''guidance,'' ''wise,'' ''alert,'' ''sage'' and ''learned'' and tested them again. Their memories were better and they even walked faster. Next, she flashed negative words like ''dementia,'' ''decline,'' ''senile,'' ''confused'' and ''decrepit.'' This time, her subjects' memories were worse, and their walking paces slowed. Thomas Hess, a psychology professor at North Carolina State University, came to a similar conclusion about the effects of stereotypes of aging. In his studies, older people did significantly worse on memory tests if they were first told something that would bring to mind aging stereotypes. It could be as simple as saying the study was on how aging affects learning and memory. They did better on memory tests if Dr. Hess first told them something positive, like saying that there was not much of a decline in memory with age.
The high rate reported for the South Fork drew a lot of attention. Susan Roden, a resident of Water Mill who represented the South Fork coalition, got breast cancer when she was 38 and again when she was 42, ''although I was not in any high-risk category,'' she said. ''The South Fork has the highest incidence of the disease on Long Island,'' she said, ''and most of us have private wells. But we live in God's country, the most beautiful place in the world and we're not moving. We just want to find out what's causing it.'' Dr. Novello understands these concerns. ''Women feel especially vulnerable to environmental risk factors,'' she said, ''and they are worried that something about the air they breathe, the water they drink or the place they live is affecting their health. They want to fight back.'' She said she had asked the women what their priority was in terms of possible environmental risks, ''and they all told me: the water.''
''We're seeing more of the sympathetic buddy,'' said Dr. W. Grant Stevens, the medical director of Marina Plastic Surgery Associates in Marina del Rey, Calif. ''I think over all there is more curiosity about plastic surgery in general. The buddy may have his or her own curiosity. It is a nonthreatening way for the buddy to have the plastic surgery experience.'' In certain situations and with appropriate behavior from friends, the buddy can ease the fear and tension of consultations, as happened when two women entered Dr. Stevens's office together, all giggles. ''One wanted a breast reduction and one wanted a breast augmentation,'' Dr. Stevens recalled, ''and of course the joke was, 'Can you take them off of her and put them on me?' It breaks the ice a little bit.'' It also can help if the friend will be the primary caregiver after the surgery. ''The patient can be anxious -- they may remember only a third of what was told to them,'' said Dr. Rod Rohrich, the chairman of plastic surgery at University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas.
ZIPLIP.COM: www.ziplip.com  A service that provides free Web-based e-mail accounts (like those offered by HotMail) that let users send encrypted messages as well as regular e-mail. Recipients of the encrypted messages do not have to have ZipLip accounts. But they must enter a password -- which is agreed upon between the sender and receiver ahead of time -- to read the message.
But the investigators caution that these gains were accompanied by serious adverse side effects in nearly half the subjects, who developed pre-diabetes or diabetes, aching joints and swollen tissues. The findings, the scientists said, give them hope, but much work remains. The study lasted just six months, and there is concern that growth hormone may have terrible long-term effects -- in animals it can actually speed aging and reduce the life span, and scientists fear it could promote the growth of cancers. In people, growth hormone can cause arthritis, and some experts worry that the joint pains that plagued many in the study might lead to arthritis if the drug were continued. ''This is a fascinating area for further research,'' said Dr. Marc Blackman, a director of the new study, which is being published today in The Journal of the American Medical Association. But, Dr. Blackman cautioned, ''we don't think this is ready for prime time yet.''
What gave the longevity-seekers hope in recent years were some fascinating discoveries in molecular biology suggesting that scientists might learn to step in where nature had left off. In one set of experiments, scientists found that injecting human cells in the laboratory with the so-called telomerase gene enabled the cells to keep growing and dividing indefinitely. In other experiments, gene manipulations in laboratory worms, flies and mice enabled them to live far beyond their normal life spans. All this made it look possible that scientists might someday find a way to extend human life as well. But now a potential stumbling block has emerged from an experiment reported last week in Nature, a prestigious journal. Scientists at the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston found that mice whose p53 gene became hyperactive and produced high concentrations of p53 protein developed far fewer tumors than normal mice -- but at a terrible price. The cancer-proof mice lost weight and muscle, developed hunched backs and brittle bones, and lost vigor. Their skin became thinner, and their wounds took longer to heal. They died much sooner than normal mice.
Dr. Nissen was dubious. Most studies he participates in go on for two or three years and involve 500 or more subjects to see an effect. This was to last just five weeks and involve about 50 people. He agreed but the arrangement was that Dr. Newton at Esperion not even see the results until the paper was in press. He saw the data for the first time on Friday. Dr. Nissen had no financial interests in the company. When he saw the data, he was stunned. ''The plaques regressed. A lot. More than has been seen with any drug. I almost fell off my seat. This is just so bizarre and unusual.'' ''Until now, the paradigm has been to prevent disease by lowering bad cholesterol,'' Dr. Nissen said, referring to L.D.L. lowering. ''If you get the bad cholesterol low enough, the plaques don't build up in the artery walls. This says you can also remove the disease in the wall of the artery.''
* Excessive fatigue. * Fever. * Abnormal vaginal bleeding. * Pain during intercourse. And here are the criteria for screening and exams: * Every woman should undergo annual pelvic exams. * Women who are at increased risk should get pelvic exams twice a year, as well as a transvaginal ultrasound and CA125 blood test annually. They may want to consider seeing a specialist, called a gynecologic oncologist. * For now, women who are at low risk for ovarian cancer are not advised to undergo screening tests until more studies prove their usefulness in early detection. VICKY LOWRY Vicky Lowry is a senior editor at Women's Sports &amp; Fitness magazine.
COX-2 inhibitors block an enzyme in the body called cyclooxygenase-2, which contributes to inflammation and pain. Since inflammation is a contributor to heart attacks and strokes, blocking it could be helpful in preventing such events. However, there is also evidence that the COX-2 enzyme helps retard blood clotting, so inhibiting it might contribute to the clots that cause heart attacks and strokes. Besides questions about the new trial, there are also questions about why Pfizer did not disclose the data on Bextra earlier. Dr. Cawkwell acknowledged that Pfizer knew the results of the Bextra trial in bypass patients two months ago. But the company remained silent about these results, even after Vioxx was withdrawn from the market on Sept. 30. Instead, Pfizer insisted that Vioxx was unique and that there was no evidence of a class effect. ''I think one could only characterize their response to the Vioxx story, where they publicly dismissed the possibility of a class effect, as deceptive,'' Dr. FitzGerald said.
On the question of established connective tissue diseases, like lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, the group reviewed 17 epidemiological studies,  concluding that they were ''remarkable for the consistency of finding no elevated risk or odds for an association of implants with disease.'' After hearing a description of the report, David Bernstein, a law professor and adviser for the American Tort Reform Foundation, a business-sponsored group, said that, coming as it does in the wake of similar reports, the report ''might have a dramatic effect in hastening the end of the litigation.'' ''It is a very strong statement,'' Mr. Bernstein said. But he added that it was a shame that the legal system had gone ahead with the litigation in the absence of science, with companies paying billions to compensate women with implants. ''It would have been nice to have had this $7 billion ago,'' Mr. Bernstein said.
''There's no good way to say this,'' the surgeon said, before bluntly telling Dr. Gallo that he had B-cell lymphoma. And suddenly, Dr. Gallo realized that all his medical knowledge of cancer had not prepared him for the reality. He was terrified. Cancer survivors also share the realization that they can never return to life as it was before the cancer diagnosis. Some changes are tangible: the old job may not be there anymore, insurance may be denied. Others are more subtle: a change in the way friends, family, colleagues view you. Sometimes old relationships resume. ''People who were old friends, old acquaintances heard through the grapevine that I had cancer,'' Dr. Gallo said. ''Everyone said: 'We were so close in the past. I'm so sorry we drifted apart.''' Sometimes relationships wither. ''Either people start avoiding you,'' Ms. Mayer said, ''even crossing the street to avoid seeing you, or you get these meaningful looks. How ARE you?''
More important, perhaps, the women in this study who had had biopsies showing atypical hyperplasia (precancerous changes in the cells lining the milk ducts) and who took tamoxifen reduced their risk of developing breast cancer by 86 percent. If it were easy to identify which women will develop these changes we could select which women are most likely to benefit from tamoxifen. But as of now there is no equivalent of a Pap smear for breast cancer. Or, if we had a way to monitor women on tamoxifen, we might be able to detect when the cells are beginning to become resistant before they have a chance to do damage. Researchers are studying a device to do just this. Let's hope this is the next piece of progress. Thus the real message for women is not that tamoxifen is bad or good, but that it is an interesting drug that we do not fully understand. Taking it for five years after a breast cancer diagnosis is worthwhile. Taking it longer may not be better. In high-risk women, the risks and potential benefits of taking it for prevention should be considered. Raloxifene, on the other hand, has yet to be proved to decrease breast cancer in these women.
Others agreed. ''We're exposed to a huge background of natural chemicals that cause cancer in rats,'' said Dr. Lois Swirsky Gold, who directs the Carcinogenic Potency Project at the University of California. Some of those chemicals are in foods like fruits and vegetables that are thought to help prevent cancer. It is not even clear if acrylamide causes cancer in humans, said Dr. John Boice Jr., who is scientific director of the International Epidemiology Institute in Rockville, Md. He said large studies of workers who were exposed to acrylamide, including one involving more than 8,000 people, failed to find any increase in their cancer risk. The Environmental Protection Agency classifies acrylamide as a ''probable'' human carcinogen because the only evidence that it causes cancer comes from rat studies; there is not even suggestive evidence that it causes cancer in humans. That acrylamide might cause cancer in rats does not in and of itself give cause for panic, Dr. Gold said. ''People have lost the forest for the trees,'' she said.
Still, a Duke University study of about 32,000 patients with coronary artery disease who were treated from 1995 to 2002 found that only 83 percent took aspirin. And only 71 percent did so consistently. The financial incentives in the health care system are part of the problem, experts say. These incentives encourage hospitals and clinics to provide more services, hire more specialists and install more devices. They shuttle patients from one specialist to the other -- providing more-scattered care. All too often, when the patient leaves the hospital, nobody among the crowd of doctors takes responsibility for prescribing the beta-blockers. ''The system rewards throughput and higher-margin services,'' Dr. Fisher said. ''This leads us inadvertently to waste and inadvertently to harm.'' He argued that hospitals and doctors must gather into bigger units that coordinate care smoothly -- sharing medical records and responsibility for a patient's overall health. They should provide information about treatments and outcomes. And, he said, Medicare must start paying for results, measured in terms of lives improved and extended and of value for the money.
But the clinical trial of Gleevec, conducted at the Oregon Health &amp; Science University, U.C.L.A. and M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, was a spectacular success. Patients' cancer cells were beaten back to such an extent that the old tests to look for them in bone marrow were too insensitive, Dr. Sawyers said. Gleevec is not perfect. It is expensive, costing about $25,000 a year. It is not a cure: some cancer cells remain lurking, quiescent and ready to spring if the drug is stopped, so patients must take it every day for the rest of their lives. And some patients are now developing resistance to Gleevec. Still, Dr. Sawyers says, ''Seven years later, most of our patients are still doing well.'' Without Gleevec, he added, most would be dead. As for the future of cancer therapy, Dr. Golub and others say that Gleevec offers a taste of the possible.
The article by authors including Dr. Steven E. Nissen and Dr. Eric J. Topol and the editorial appeared on the Web site of The Journal of the American Medical Association (jama.ama-assn.org), which put the information out before its print publication in what it called the interest of public health. The editorial, by Dr. James M. Brophy of McGill University in Montreal, also raised concerns about a cancer risk with Pargluva and listed eight ways that the companies' methodology for patient trials might have -- perhaps unintentionally, he said -- skewed results in favor of Pargluva's approval. Among them, he said, studies of the drug included low-risk patients who were unlikely to have serious side effects and excluded other likely users of the drug with high cardiovascular risks, like elderly patients who often have Type 2 diabetes. Responding to the article and editorial, a spokesman for Bristol-Myers Squibb, Tony Plohoros, said the company had not yet thoroughly reviewed the analysis in the journal, but added, ''It's widely known that there are many different and appropriate ways to analyze data.''
Many doctors say that for women to turn their backs on hormone replacement therapy would be a gross overreaction. ''I don't think we should throw out the baby with the bath water just because of this one study,'' said Dr. Daniel R. Mishell, chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Southern California's Keck School of Medicine. Dr. Mishell and others point out that the increased risk of breast cancer and cardiovascular problems for a woman in the federal study was small. Many doctors still say that taking hormones for two to four years, to treat temporary symptoms of menopause, is probably safe for most women. And the fact is, nothing else works as well as estrogen to relieve hot flashes and vaginal dryness. Still, the news from the Women's Health Initiative study is prompting a reassessment of the standard regimen of hormone replacement therapy. It seems likely that in the months ahead, many doctors will be prescribing formulations of estrogen and progestin that are tailored to each woman's health and personal preferences. Some women will opt for lower doses, and some will forgo hormones altogether in favor of other remedies.
The results of the survey of Maya children were not uniformly alarming. Dr. Bogin and his research colleagues, Dr. Patricia Smith and Maria Ines Varela Silva, also found that Maya children in the United States, in addition to being fatter, were taller than their counterparts in Guatemala. Mr. Bogin attributed the greater height to clean drinking water, school food programs, access to better medical care and other improvements in living conditions for children. ''Generally, when populations get taller it's a sign that they're healthier, but these Maya children are also getting fatter, so two things are going on here,'' he said. Dr. Bogin said that anecdotal evidence from interviews with the survey participants and their parents supported the notion that greater obesity levels most likely arose from the more sedentary lifestyle adopted by the Maya who were living in the United States. ''In Guatemala, they carry firewood, they carry their brothers and sisters around, they work in the fields with their parents,'' Dr. Bogin said. ''In the U.S., they go to school, watch TV and play computer games.''
One couple, Ms. Crockin said, who had had two children through in vitro fertilization, wanted to donate their extra embryos to friends in their neighborhood. ''They came in to me to do what they thought at the outset was a simple legal task of 'make it happen,''' Ms. Crockin said. ''Instead, after really exploring what this might mean to their existing children, what it might mean for the resulting child, how would they deal with the children they were raising and this child who was going to be raised down the street, they couldn't reach a comfort level. The wife called me in tears: 'We want to do this, we want to be generous, I feel selfish, but I can't do this.''' Such experiences are significant in light of efforts by conservatives to encourage embryo donation and to use it as an argument against using embryos for stem cell research.
IT is a question that occurs to almost everyone who becomes seriously ill: Should you go to your local hospital or would you do better if you went to a major medical center? It may mean a long trip when you are ill and it will almost certainly mean seeing doctors who are strangers to you. But what if going to a major medical center makes the difference between life and death? Patients reach different conclusions, based often on gut feelings about a doctor or a hospital. And medical researchers, looking for data, say they are not always certain themselves about how to decide. ''There really is very, very little information,'' says Dr. Elliott S. Fisher, a professor at Dartmouth Medical School in Hanover, N.H., who studies medical outcomes. ''It's the great weakness of all the efforts to foster consumer engagement in health care decision making.'' But there are a few hints, he and others say, and the answers from the studies so far have sometimes been a surprise.
Once the mutations start, there is ''a kind of snowball effect, like a chain reaction,'' Dr. Vogelstein said. With the first mutations, cells multiply, producing clusters of cells with genetic changes. As some randomly acquire additional mutations, they grow even more. In the end, all those altered genes may end up being the downfall of cancer cells, researchers say. ''Cancer cells have many Achilles' heels,'' Dr. Golub said. ''It may take a couple of dozen mutations to cause a cancer, all of which are required for the maintenance and survival of the cancer cell.'' Gleevec, researchers say, was the first test of this idea. The drug knocks out a gene product, abl kinase, that is overly abundant in chronic myelogenous leukemia. The first clinical trial, which began seven years ago, seemed like a long shot. ''The idea that this would lead to therapy was something you wrote in your grant application,'' said Dr. Charles Sawyers, a Howard Hughes investigator at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''It wasn't anything you believed would happen soon.''
Dr. Clifton said that although the study as a whole was disappointing, he saw hints that some groups --  younger patients, those injured in the winter who came into the emergency room already cold from time spent outside -- might benefit from keeping their brains cold. So, he said, he has not given up on the treatment. He wants to do another large study, focusing on these groups and once again using the  waived consent policy. He said he would soon be contacting the National Institutes of Health. ''My plan,'' he said, ''is to apply in June back to the N.I.H.''
A nurse in the group called 911. Within 15 minutes, Mrs. Arnston recalled, she was at Martha's Vineyard Hospital. There, with TeleStroke, a Harvard doctor determined that she was having a stroke, recommended tPA, and remotely supervised its administration. ''It was very scary,'' Mrs. Arnston said. ''But I recovered and I'm doing very, very well.'' Now, she said, her only reminder of the stroke is an occasional numbness in her hand. ''It's just remarkable,'' Mrs. Arnston said. ''God was good to me, and I'm very thankful for that.'' A VITAL LINK
Speaking at a symposium here this morning, Dr. Battey said, ''There is a lot of basic science to be done that can be done with available stem cell lines.'' Dr. Yang said their program would sidestep worries about human embryonic stem cells by focusing on animal models for now. But ultimately, he said, he hopes to apply what has been learned about animal cloning to human stem cell research. The type of cloning Dr. Yang has studied is called therapeutic cloning. This method involves taking cells from an adult animal, usually skin cells, and inserting them into an unfertilized egg that has had its nucleus removed. Instead of implanting the embryo in a female's womb, as was done in the case of the cows to produce exact genetic replicas, scientists would extract stem cells from the embryo that could then grow into tissues that are an exact genetic match for the patient.
''The issue is that you are not put on a health plan for about two months,'' said Dr. Aaron Hexdall, a third-year resident in emergency medicine. ''So you are not covered, and then in the meantime you are transferred to another hospital again.'' Some residents met Wednesday with Bellevue administrators, who told them they would have to wait until the hospital is inspected by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Organizations, a national hospital inspection concern, before the administrators would look into the problem, Dr. Hexdall said. But a Bellevue spokeswoman, when reached by a reporter, said the hospital would begin to address the problem soon. ''We are working collaboratively to fix this problem,'' said the spokeswoman, Pam McDonnell. ''The long-term plan is to have a discussion with the chief financial officer regarding an automated system, because automation is the problem. We have hired a new person for the human resources department to handle the problem.''
''As far as I'm concerned, we're saving Medicare money,'' Dr. Kaminetsky said. He pointed to cases like that of Philip Novack, 94. For Mr. Novack, who is in fragile health, Dr. Kaminetsky's office often becomes a low-stress alternative to the emergency room. One morning last summer, Mr. Novack woke up at 5 a.m. feeling unwell and asked his wife, Edythe Shane-Novack, to call an ambulance. A veteran of many similar emergencies, she waited till 9:02 a.m. and called Dr. Kaminetsky's office instead. Less than three hours later Mr. Novack was perched on an examining table, smiling at the familiar faces in the office and receiving the same evaluation he would have had in the emergency room, including blood tests, an X-ray and a cardiogram. The diagnosis, a slight imbalance in his blood sodium level, was made promptly, and Mr. Novack was better by the next morning. Instead of paying expensive emergency fees, Medicare would pay only for an office visit. ''This is the best thing that ever happened to us,'' Mrs. Shane-Novack said.
The situation is complicated by time constraints on doctors who are part of managed care groups, said Prof. E. Haavi Morreim, an ethicist at the University of Tennessee College of Medicine. ''A lot of patients come in with this sheaf of papers,'' Professor Morreim said. ''A lot of it may be completely irrelevant or it may be bad information -- who knows what you're getting off the Net. Now the physician has to spend a lot of time sifting through this stuff and explaining. The physician either resents spending the time or truly doesn't have the time. Then the patient may feel he is being given short shrift.'' Dr. Thomas R. Reardon, a general practitioner from Portland, Ore.,  who is president of the American Medical Association, said that while ''we do support patients having access to good, reliable, information,'' the problem is that the information on the Internet varies from sound to irresponsible. ''Right now, anybody can put anything on the Internet,'' Dr. Reardon said.
Treating back pain costs Americans $26 billion a year, or 2.5 percent of the total health care bill, according to a new study from Duke University, and far more if disability payments, workers' compensation and lost wages are taken into account. The costs are rising, researchers say, as patients get ever more aggressive forms of treatment. Back problems are the leading reason for visits to neurologists and orthopedists and the eighth leading reason for visits to doctors over all -- ahead of fever, knee pain, rashes, headaches and checkups for healthy babies. More than 70 percent of adults suffer back pain at some time in their lives, studies show. A third have had it in the past 30 days. Yet for all the costs, for all the hours spent in doctors' offices and operating suites, for all the massage therapy and acupuncture and spinal manipulations, study after study is leading medical experts to ask what, if anything, is doing any good.
What the genetic sequence of the 1918 virus did not reveal, however, was why the virus killed so ruthlessly, or how it made that critical leap to become transmissible. For those answers, they would have to take a more drastic step. ''Jeff spent 10 years of his life doing this, and it told us nothing about pathogenicity,'' says Robert Webster, a noted flu researcher at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis. ''That's when we realized the sequence wasn't enough. It was necessary to put the damn thing together.'' Necessary or not, the fact that it had become possible was probably enough to ensure that it would be done. In biology, the direction determined by what is possible has been downward, toward the exploration of ever more reduced levels of complexity. The progression started with the ancients, who first opened up the human body to ponder its organs and their functions. Once microscopes were developed in the 17th century, it became possible to observe the anatomy and behavior of the tissues and cells making up the organs, and with later advances, the proteins that build cells and determine their functions. In the last century we reached the level of the genes that conjure the proteins into being. Only in the last decade has automated sequencing made it possible to peer beneath genes at the individual letters of DNA constituting a complex organism's complete genome, including our own.
Medical experts say that doctor visits easily can be overdone, and that many, if not most, of the people sitting in office waiting rooms do not need to be there. ''For women under 50, when I first meet them I usually tell them that if they are not smoking, not drinking more than a glass or two of alcohol a day, getting regular exercise and watching their calorie intake, they are doing more for their health than I could ever do,'' Dr. Scott D. Ramsey, an associate professor of medicine at the University of Washington in Seattle. ''They don't need to see me except for a Pap test every three years.'' Dr. Nortin Hadler, a professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, notes that aches and pains are a part of everyday life, with most people suffering such things as back pain, knee pain or headaches from time to time. Usually there is nothing that medicine can do and most of the time the pain goes away by itself with, or without, the doctor. But if you see a doctor, chances are you will get tests and you will get treatments. Dr. Hadler calls it ''the medicalization of misery'' and says his concern is what he calls Type 2 malpractice, ''doing things very well that people don't need.''
Back in New Jersey, she said, she was unable to find a doctor who would treat her. She said doctors often cited Dr. Steere's treatment guidelines, said they could not help and suggested psychiatric help. Dr. Steere declined to discuss individual patients, but said he gave patients the best and most appropriate care. Finally, Mrs. Goodman said, she was carried in her husband's arms into the office of Dr. Bernard Davidoff of Morristown, who diagnosed her condition as persistent Lyme disease based on her symptoms. She then saw Dr. Liegner, who said he confirmed the diagnosis from blood tests and her symptoms. Dr. Liegner, who also spoke in an interview, said he had treated more than 1,000 patients with experiences similar to Mrs. Goodman's. He said he had put her on long-term oral antibiotics. When he tried to stop the treatments, she relapsed. Both Mrs. Goodman and Dr. Liegner said she was still taking antibiotics, and was now in good health.
Dr. Mark H. Ebell  Family physician, editor of The Journal of Family Practice, Athens, Ga. I don't think teaching breast self-examination is a good use of the limited time I have with my patients. It's one of the those things where it seems like a good idea, it makes perfect sense, but it doesn't work. I do continue to recommend mammography, starting at age 40. But if we have a patient who's at very low risk for breast cancer, based on her family history and health history, then I think it's reasonable to wait until age 50. The biggest challenge is getting women in their 60's and early 70's to be screened, because that's where there's the clearest evidence of benefit, and you tend to have lower rates of screening. Prostate cancer is different. It's often an indolent, slow-growing cancer, and most men who have it die with it and not of it.
I resented that after the surgery people kept telling me I was as good as new, because for me, I am not really as good as new. The first day home from the hospital, I felt helpless. I was in bed and could not get up. It was very depressing to not be able to do the things I had always done. You feel sorry for yourself. To me, my main depression was a sense of helplessness. I also help run a cardiac rehabilitation program. I know a few people who are up and around and out doing things in five weeks, but I did not have any energy. I had this one panic attack, which I knew was due to the surgery. About three weeks after the surgery, I went out shopping with a nurse's aide. I thought this would be no big deal. I sat there when she went off shopping, and then I got panicky that she would not come back. I was telling myself to breathe, breathe.
Dr. Frederick Naftolin, chairman emeritus of obstetrics and gynecology and reproductive sciences at Yale and national co-principal investigator of the Keeps trial, said the findings of the Women's Health Initiative studies were counterintuitive. ''The relationship between the fall in estrogen and the rise in cardiovascular disease in women is incontrovertible,'' Dr. Naftolin said. ''So why in the world would you not try to find out whether simply maintaining estrogen at the levels of reproductive life could be cardioprotective?'' On the other side, researchers say the cardioprotective theory has been discredited. ''Atherosclerosis starts well before the age of menopause,'' said Dr. Deborah Grady, a principal investigator in the HERS trial. ''On top of that, why would you want a preventive intervention that has a lot of other side effects like blood clots? These people have a theory they don't want to give up on, no matter what.'' Dr. Richard M. Fuchs, a cardiologist and clinical professor of medicine at Weill Medical College of Cornell University in New York, agreed.
The issue is partly -- but only partly -- one of definition. According to the makers of the emergency contraception pill, it has three possible means of functioning. Most commonly, it stops ovulation -- the release of an egg --or prevents sperm from fertilizing an egg. In some cases, however, depending on where a woman is in her cycle, it may stop an already fertilized egg from attaching to the uterine wall. In such a situation, for those who believe that life -- and thus also pregnancy -- begins at the moment of fertilization, it would indeed function as an abortifacient. According to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, however, pregnancy begins not at fertilization but at implantation. The medical thinking behind this definition has to do with the fact that implantation is the moment when a woman's body begins to nurture the fertilized egg. The roughly one-half of all fertilized eggs that never attach to a uterine wall are thus not generally considered to be tiny humans -- ensouled beings -- that died but rather fertilized eggs that did not turn into pregnancies. Federal regulations enacted during the Bush administration agree with this, stating, ''Pregnancy encompasses the period of time from implantation until delivery.''
''They don't realize you can pass the infection for 24 hours before you develop symptoms, and for four or five days afterward,'' he said. ''That means that throughout the shift before you got sick, you were covering your patients with this virus.'' Even during periods of vaccine shortages, workers who treat patients should be immunized, he said, to keep them healthy and able to care for others. Some workers mistakenly believe that using proper medical technique sufficiently protects patients. Frequent hand washing and covering your cough with the inside of your elbow is a good idea, but not enough to stop influenza. ''Flu is so easily transmitted,'' said Dr. Nichol of Minneapolis. ''Large infectious droplets can be spread two or three feet with every cough, and the smallest droplets even farther. The virus can live on a doorknob for hours and maybe longer.'' Even people with very mild flu can inflict more serious cases on others less equipped to deal with it, Dr. Nichol said. And those in the ''tough it out'' culture of many health centers may feel pressure to return to work after a day or two, when they start to feel better, unaware they are still contagious.
Ruth Arnold can recall a time when her memory was perfect. Years ago, working as a college reference librarian, she could put her finger on any piece of minutia at will. ''I remembered all the books and what was in them,'' Mrs. Arnold said. Now, at 81, she finds her memory fuzzy. ''I forget the hour of an appointment,'' she said. '' I forget who I'm going to see and what I'm going to tell them. I started out with a very good memory. It's a lot to lose.'' Such laments are hardly uncommon. Misplacing keys, forgetting lunch dates, losing the car in the mall parking lot -- all are thought to be a  normal part of getting old. But is such memory loss necessary? As the blank stare of a blank memory becomes a not-so-funny fact of more daily lives, researchers are increasingly trying to answer that question. At the moment, it is still thought to be generally true that older people do not remember as well as younger people. Dr. Denise C. Park, a professor of psychology and a senior research scientist at the Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, says that when young and old people, ranging in age from 20 to 90, are asked to listen to a series of numbers and letters and then reverse the series, young people can remember and manipulate longer lists faster.
Technical advances in blood work, brought on in part by recent efforts to cleanse blood products that might be contaminated with the virus that causes AIDS and by the discovery of new ways of isolating fibrinogen and thrombin from each other until they are needed, have opened up new approaches to making clotting dressings, scientists say. With support from the Army, the Red Cross has developed methods, for which it is seeking patent rights, to bring clotting ingredients together in several forms to make easy-to-use sealants for different types of wounds. Most of the effort has gone into a bandage,  embedded with clotting proteins, that is pressed into a wound and held in place for a couple of minutes. The researchers have also developed a self-expanding sealant foam that can be propelled from a container into deep wounds or the body cavity to contact internal bleeding sites. The team is also investigating a dry spray that would be squirted on a large, open wound or a burned area.
In a backlash against the onrush of biomedical research into areas that raise moral and ethical issues, the House of Representatives passed a bill this week that would ban all human cloning and subject anyone who violates the ban to criminal penalties and huge civil judgments. Unfortunately, in their zeal to legislate morality and cover their flanks from the religious right, the legislators may put a crimp in research that has promising medical benefits. Once the nature of the work is understood, most citizens would accept the very limited form of cloning involved as a useful scientific tool. Congress seems to have been spooked by an exaggerated fear that science is going too far too fast. The summer started with President Bush wrestling with an issue that seems, by contrast, relatively simple -- whether to allow federal funding of research on stem cells derived from very early stage embryos, called blastocysts, that are produced in surplus at fertility clinics. This issue raises moral and ethical questions because religious conservatives consider the blastocysts an early form of human life, potentially capable of growing into a fetus and ultimately a newborn child. Others, including this page, consider the blastocysts to be microscopic balls of cells that have no chance of becoming human in a petri dish outside the womb. They are fit subjects for research on therapies that could benefit all humankind.
Doubts about mammography are not new. Though many women and their doctors think of annual mammograms after age 40 as normal and necessary, there have long been vocal skeptics. Their dissident view about the usefulness of mammograms may seem to have been fully validated by the study published this fall in The Lancet, concluding that women who have mammography die of breast cancer at the same rate as those who don't. But the issue of breast cancer screening isn't so easily settled. For most of the 20th century, physicians thought that breast cancer was a local disease that only spread to the rest of the body late in its course. Early detection, they assumed, meant that the cancer would be caught and treated before it could kill. So it made perfect sense that the American Cancer Society began in the 1950's to encourage women to perform breast self-examinations and in the 1970's to recommend mammograms.
Before recruitment of volunteers can start, the project must pass an ethics review by the National Health Service. An oversight body is planned with veto power over access and ethics. ''The public consultations held so far have all been positive, said Lord Hunt of King's Heath, the parliamentary under secretary of state for health, ''but it is still too early to tell how widespread this feeling is amongst the broader general public and medical profession.''
From 1948 to 1954, while strep infections raged at the Fort Francis E. Warren Air Force Base in Wyoming, doctors there conducted a landmark study that eventually proved that treating the bacterial infections with antibiotics could prevent rheumatic fever, a grave heart condition that can follow strep throat. The blood samples, from 9,427 recruits, ended up in a freezer in Cleveland, where the lead strep investigator, Dr. Charles Rammelkamp, had moved. Twenty years ago, when Dr. Rammelkamp was ready to retire, he offered the blood to Dr. Edward L. Kaplan, a strep researcher who is at the University of Minnesota. If Dr. Kaplan had not wanted the blood, it would have been discarded. Dr. Kaplan used freezer trucks that normally carry frozen pizzas to bring the blood back to Minnesota. To store the 83 wire trays, each holding about 700 vials of blood, he and his 10-year-old son went to Sears and bought freezers. ''The salesman asked me if I owned a restaurant,'' Dr. Kaplan recalled. He kept the blood and dreamed of using it some day.
''This study just muddied the waters for women who don't have access to health care,'' she said. ''The real issue isn't mammography. In my opinion, it's an adequate screening tool, and women have bought into it.'' ''The real issue,'' Ms. Brown said, ''is what happens after the mammogram for the woman who has just been diagnosed and who does not have access to treatment.''
Not Snoopy. The scientists named him for Seoul National University puppy. Cloning researchers were awed at the achievement, but not everyone shared their admiration. Nigel Cameron, a bioethicist at Chicago-Kent College of Law and director of its Institute on Biotechnology and the Human Future, noted some people see dogs as members of the family. ''There's sort of a dry run here for the human cloning debate,'' he said. ''What we do with dogs we may well end up doing with our kids.'' Dr. Cameron said he objected to cloning dogs, but not farm animals or laboratory rodents. He said he did, however, oppose all human cloning, including cloning human embryos for stem cells. The reason that other researchers are so impressed, said Mark E. Westhusin, a cloning researcher at Texas A&amp;M University, is that with dogs, ''their reproductive biology makes them a nightmare.'' Cats, in what might seem a turnabout, are biologically much less finicky.
Dr. Sher argues that almost nothing in the fertility field is proved with randomized clinical trials. The proof that his methods succeed, he says, is the babies that are born. IVIG is under attack only because it costs so much, he went on, adding that clinics compete for patients and do not want to burden couples with extra expense. ''It is much more difficult to compete if you are saying that they now have to pay extra for IVIG,'' which can cost thousands of dollars, Dr. Sher said. ''That's what's going on.'' Dr. Stephenson said she understood the dilemma for patients. ''If you are the one who has infertility, there is a lot of pressure to try this or try that,'' she said. But she tells them not to waste their money. ''I'm a scientist,'' she continued, ''and especially when I've done the study, I can very confidently say I cannot offer you IVIG for the treatment of infertility.''
IF scientists invented a test that could almost eliminate the third most lethal form of cancer -- and if that test was time-consuming, expensive and really, really unpleasant -- you would have the vexing situation for men regarding colon cancer. The test is the colonoscopy. This scope-type test, along with its sibling, the sigmoidoscopy, has the potential to practically wipe out colorectal cancer, which killed 27,900 men last year. ''With screening tests, virtually all colon cancer can be prevented,'' said Dr. J. Marc Shabot, a professor of medicine and the director of clinical gastroenterology at the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston. There is just one problem, Dr. Shabot said: ''Patients don't present themselves for the tests.'' During a colonoscopy, a long, thin, flexible tube is inserted through the rectum into the colon. It is linked to a video camera that allows a doctor to examine the rectum and the entire length (about five feet) of the colon for cancers and polyps. Polyps are removed using a wire loop.
Such therapeutic cloning would have the advantage that the replacement tissue would be an exact genetic match, so patients would not have to take anti-rejection drugs. But the idea has raised ethical concerns because it would require destroying a cloned embryo to extract its stem cells. In July, the Advanced Cell Technology revealed that it had been secretly working on therapeutic cloning for a year, paying young women $3,000 to $5,000 for eggs and using them to try to create human stem cells. Its experiments, financed with private money, raised questions about whether science was moving ahead of public policy. The new paper on the cloning, published in E-biomed: The Journal of Regenerative Medicine, describes the results of those studies. Advanced Cell Technology used two different methods to try to create human embryos. The first was much like the standard approach that has been used to clone cows and sheep, including the first cloned sheep, Dolly. It involves taking the genetic material out of an unfertilized egg and inserting in its place an adult cell, which has a full complement of genetic material. The resulting clone is an exact genetic copy of the donor of the adult cell -- not the donor of the egg.
Other times doctors get so busy that they seem not to understand a patient's experience, as Rori Murell discovered recently. Ms. Murell, a retired therapist who lives in Rochester, was having back pain, so she made an appointment with an orthopedic surgeon recommended by her primary care doctor. When she arrived, a physician's assistant entered the examining room. ''He looked over some of the X-rays and said, 'I recommend spinal injections.' I said, 'I can discuss that when I meet with the doctor.' He said, 'You're not going to see the doctor.' '' The doctor, the physician's assistant explained, was busy seeing patients. ''I said, 'Well, I'm a patient,' '' Ms. Murell said, but she got no reply. ''I realize that doctors get really, really busy,'' Ms. Murell said. ''But someone with a back problem is different than someone with a sniffly nose. I don't want to sound like I need to be pampered or babied or that I need sympathy. But what's fair is fair, and what's professional is professional. I'm 68 and I'm old enough to remember a time when you went to the doctor and you saw the doctor.''
In this case, the study, the Women's Health Initiative, found that estrogen did not increase the women's risk of breast cancer. But they did have more abnormal mammograms, usually requiring that the test be repeated, and more breast biopsies. The study ended early, at the end of February 2004, when the investigators found that estrogen increased the risk of strokes and of blood clots in the legs. The study also found that estrogen taken alone increased the risk of dementia in women over age 65, it decreased the risk of hip fractures, and it had no effect on heart disease. But the question of estrogen's effects on breast cancer risk was uncertain until now, when the women had been followed for seven years. The results in women with hysterectomies contrast with those from another arm of the study involving women who had not had hysterectomies and who took estrogen and progesterone. In that case the hormone combination led to more breast cancer and more heart disease.
By hiring strategists -- many of them exercise physiologists or former professional athletes -- to create realistic training schedules, people with a passion for cycling, running or triathlons are also finding that they can squeeze training into a day that is busy with work and family commitments. Dr. Wilson began working with Greg McMillan, an exercise physiologist, in 2003. Since then he has designed daily schedules for her, telling her precisely how far and how fast to go, and at what heart rate. He's also been available by phone or e-mail messages 24/7 to field her questions and set her straight. Mr. McMillan, for instance, explained that Ms. Wilson's habit of training hard every day probably made her a slower racer, because her legs never properly recovered. More than anything, though, Mr. McMillan helped Ms. Wilson to eliminate the guesswork in her training. And he soothed her nerves. This year she ran the Boston Marathon, on a brutally hilly course, about 50 minutes faster than any of her previous 26.2-mile races.
Yet I also noted that 206 of the 1,000 patients had had lesions that looked suspicious but turned out not to be cancer (known as false-positives). Such people required additional X-rays and, in some cases, surgical biopsies, to determine that no cancer was present. These patients had to endure several weeks of anxiety until they learned they did not have cancer. Mrs. S. carefully weighed her options, waiting for close to a year before choosing testing last March. ''Since I was smoking a great deal,'' she later recalled, ''to take a look and see if anything was going on seemed to be a good idea.'' Her spiral C.T. scan shocked everyone.  Part of Mrs. S.'s right lung was collapsed, presumably due to a large obstructing cancer. She underwent open-lung surgery, a major operation, to remove the affected tissue. But another surprise awaited us: the pathology report showed a collapsed portion of the lung, nothing more or less. There was no cancer.
AS the white stretch limo zoomed westward on the Long Island Expressway, the passengers giggled and gossiped, catching up on old times and remarking how good it was to be united after years of divisive squabbling in their pursuit of separate but overlapping agendas. What brought them together was anger and frustration over the state's recently released maps of cancer incidence county by county. The nine passengers, each one the president of a Long Island coalition combating high cancer rates on the Island, arrived at 5 Penn Plaza in Manhattan on Feb. 25 to meet with Dr. Antonia C. Novello, the New York State Health Commissioner. They went to express their concern that the state's maps, which were released in December, were inadequate to determine if patterns of cancer existed or to establish the locations of the greatest environmental hazards. ''They weren't good enough,'' said Virginia Regnante, of the West Islip coalition. ''What we want is a ZIP code map that shows each community, home by home, so we can see with our own eyes where the cancer is and where the potential hazards are. Scientists and health officials have the technology to do that without revealing anyone's name. There's no reason why they can't standardize that information from the more than 200 hospitals in the state.''
Before recruitment of volunteers can start, the project must pass an ethics review by the National Health Service. An oversight body is planned with veto power over access and ethics. ''The public consultations held so far have all been positive, said Lord Hunt of King's Heath, the parliamentary under secretary of state for health, ''but it is still too early to tell how widespread this feeling is amongst the broader general public and medical profession.''
Many proponents of the bill have assumed they would have the backing of Mr. Romney, a Republican whose wife, Ann, has multiple sclerosis, a disease that could potentially be helped by the research. Mr. Romney had previously said he supported stem cell research in general, but had not elaborated. But in an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Romney said that he was strongly against a type of embryonic stem cell research that many scientists consider extremely promising: research that involves creating human embryos specifically for scientific experimentation. The governor said he would oppose any bill, like the one Wednesday, that would allow that method. And he said he would propose his own legislation that would establish criminal and civil penalties for research like that being planned by labs at Harvard University and Children's Hospital. ''Some of the practices that Harvard and probably other institutions in Massachusetts are engaged in cross the line of ethical conduct,'' Mr. Romney said.
A few studies of bitter orange have been conducted on laboratory animals, but these do not demonstrate that it causes weight loss in humans, said Dr. Richard J. Ko, a research scientist for the California Department of Health Services. Comparisons of synephrine's chemical structure with that of ephedrine suggest that synephrine may not be as strong, Dr. Ko said. ''But nobody has studied this,'' he added. Green tea extract, another weight-loss supplement, has been studied in humans. In one investigation, the substance was given to 10 young men. Researchers found that it could boost a person's energy expenditure over 24 hours by 4 percent. But whether that can lead to weight loss is unknown. ''What patients have told me is that ephedra had been more stimulating,'' said Dr. Waitman. ''They didn't feel as much of an effect with green tea.'' Green tea extract appears to have no adverse side effects, Dr. Waitman said, but long-term studies have yet to be done.
Does the new dtente represent a dangerous compromise or medical moderation? Some women's health advocates caution against rushing back to hormones. ''I would not argue with the idea that the Women's Health Initiative doesn't answer every last question we have about hormone therapy,'' said Amy Allina, program and policy director for the National Women's Health Network in Washington. ''I am concerned, though, that the medical community is resistant to accepting the implications of this research and worried that some women may be getting false reassurance.'' ''Many doctors have had a very hard time figuring out how the world looks now that they have these results,'' Ms. Allina said. ''So there's a tendency to fall back on the old ways, to find reasons why the findings shouldn't apply to their patients.'' Others see a sensible new equilibrium. ''Hormone therapy has lost its luster for the prevention of chronic diseases, but it will still be used for the treatment of hot flashes and other symptoms, and I think short-term use will become nearly as frequent as before,'' said Dr. JoAnn E. Manson, chief of preventive medicine at Harvard's Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston and a principal investigator of the Women's Health Inititative. ''I don't think the pendulum will swing back entirely, but I think it will be used more often than it had been after the first trial.''
Fourteen patients have stopped taking their AIDS drugs. Thirteen have controlled the virus at least temporarily and two have not taken drugs for more than a year and half. Only one patient failed to control the virus, by the study's criteria. He has about 7,000 AIDS viruses in each drop of his blood. That is a low level -- the federal guidelines recommend treatment when virus levels reach 30,000 -- but enough that Dr. Walker and Dr. Rosenberg suggested he might want to take the drugs again. The man decided to stay off  them for now, while he sees what happens with his viral infection. Other AIDS experts say they think the data are credible. ''It's quite convincing and it makes a lot of sense,'' said Dr. Ashley T. Haase, chairman of the microbiology department at the University of Minnesota Medical School. ''There's that little window in the race between the virus and the immune system. If you open it a little bit wider, you very likely will get a better virus-specific immune response.''
A more accurate method, he said, would have been to first conduct a comprehensive study to define all of the environmental and occupational exposures that might have an effect on breast cancer. Virginia A. Regnante, president of the West Islip Breast Cancer Coalition, also said the study was not properly designed. ''We were very nave and optimistic,'' she said. ''But now we have a better understanding of what science can do, and at least activists now are welcome at the table.'' Geri Barish, the president of 1 in 9, a breast cancer group in Nassau County, said the task now was to find a different way of looking at the problem. ''And we can learn from our mistakes,'' she said. ''It's just a shame it had to be a multimillion-dollar mistake.'' Correction:  August 30, 2002, Friday  An article on Aug. 6 about a federal study based on Long Island that found no links between breast cancer and environmental factors like pollution misstated how breast cancer rates in Nassau County compared with the national average when the study began in the 1990's. The rates were 1.1 percent higher than the national average, not 30 percent higher.
The Food and Drug Administration soon began an investigation. Guidant subsequently disclosed that two other defibrillators, the Contak Renewal 1 and Renewal 2, had a similar electrical problem. Over the summer, Guidant issued recalls affecting those models and tens of thousands of other units. The Justice Department is investigating Guidant, which recently said it faced about 145 lawsuits over the units. In the midst of last summer's turmoil, Guidant announced that it would sponsor an outside panel to review its handling of issues related to product safety and defect disclosure. That panel, headed by Dr. Robert J. Myerburg, a professor of medicine at the University of Miami, was composed principally of cardiologists, along with experts in areas like medical ethics and statistics. Yesterday, Guidant provided a copy of the panel's executive summary and recommendations to The Times. The company plans to post the group's full report today on its corporate Web site.
''Thirty years ago, Alzheimer's was thought to be an inevitable consequence of aging; we called it senility,'' he said. ''It was not until people began to recognize the specific proteins that deposit in the brain that we began to realize that it may be treatable or preventable. The same is true of frailty. It's a syndrome, and there probably are some physiologic underpinnings.'' One thread of the work had its origins in a question, raised two decades ago, by a few gerontologists: what, exactly, is frailty? ''We were taking care of frail older adults, but we really didn't have much clarity about what frailty was,'' said Dr. Linda Fried, who directs the Center on Aging and Health at Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions. ''Everyone said, 'I know it when I see it,' but what I see may not be what everyone else sees. It became very important to me to figure it out.''
No woman need panic over these findings. The scientific directors of the study stress that the drugs increased a woman's risk of contracting breast cancer -- the finding of most concern -- by less than a tenth of a percent per year, a tiny amount. But if the drugs are taken by millions of women over several years, the risk translates into tens of thousands of cases of breast cancer or cardiovascular disease, a clear public health concern. The federal study has reached no judgment yet on the pluses and minuses of taking estrogen alone, the course of therapy for eight million American women who have had hysterectomies. That portion of the trial will continue. The emerging medical consensus seems to be that long-term use of the estrogen-progestin therapy is questionable, particularly for purposes where alternative drugs are available, such as the prevention of osteoporosis and hip fractures. But short-term use to ease the symptoms of menopause, a purpose not tested in the aborted federal study, may well remain justified. That would return the combination drug to the narrow purpose it originally had -- before the marketing juggernaut and professional word of mouth, buttressed by scientific studies that are now shown to be wrong, propelled it to superstar status.
''The take-home message is if you are training in the evening don't go to bed on an empty stomach. And if you work out in the morning, eat breakfast afterward or make darn sure to take a snack to work.'' A practical tactic is to try to limit muscle soreness before it takes hold. For that, you need to train the body to get used to downhill or downward motions. ''Gradually run or walk down hills more if you are planning to participate in a downhill event, or take an elevator up to the top of a tall building and walk or run down the stairs,'' Dr. Roberts recommended. Hikers should consider using adjustable poles, which distribute some of the stress on the legs, transferring it to the upper body, when descending steep grades. ''I put hiking poles into the hands of every one of my clients and tell them that if they don't like them I'll carry them,'' said Nate Goldberg, who routinely guides hikes up 14,000-foot peaks in the Sawatch Mountains of Colorado as director of the Beaver Creek Hiking Center. ''Very rarely do I get a set of poles back.''
FOR the Tedesco family of Bergenfield, N.J., carefree holidays ended five years ago when their daughter Annie, then 15, had a severe reaction after eating shellfish. On their next trip to Florida, said Mike Tedesco, Annie's father, ''we had to keep an eye on her at all times and watch what she ate.'' Even french fries prepared in the same oil used to fry shrimp could have sent Annie into life-threatening anaphylactic shock again. ''One minute she could be fine and the next she could be in respiratory distress.'' To many people, sampling foreign flavors is one of travel's greatest attractions. But six million to seven million Americans are estimated to have serious food allergies, according to the Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Network, a nonprofit advocacy group in Fairfax, Va., and for them travel can be a minefield. As I know from traveling with my husband, Andrew, who is allergic to peanuts, the usual concerns about restaurant and airline meals are compounded by language and cultural differences.
How depressing, how utterly unjust, to be the one in your social circle who is aging least gracefully. In a laboratory at the Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Matthias is learning about time's caprice the hard way. At 28, getting on for a rhesus monkey, Matthias is losing his hair, lugging a paunch and getting a face full of wrinkles. Yet in the cage next to his, gleefully hooting at strangers, one of Matthias's lab mates, Rudy, is the picture of monkey vitality, although he is slightly older. Thin and feisty, Rudy stops grooming his smooth coat just long enough to pirouette toward a proffered piece of fruit. Tempted with the same treat, Matthias rises wearily and extends a frail hand. ''You can really see the difference,'' said Dr. Ricki Colman, an associate scientist at the center who cares for the animals. What a visitor cannot see may be even more interesting. As a result of a simple lifestyle intervention, Rudy and primates like him seem poised to live very long, very vital lives.
Brown's proposal, which he has been airing for the past few years in venues ranging from the journal Hospital Practice to USA Today, has touched off a spirited debate, and it's easy to see why. In the eyes of some critics, there is something shady about the crafty bedside pitch he has scripted, one that seems intended to mislead as much as inform. Donald Klein, a psychiatrist at Columbia University, worries that deliberately prescribing placebo antidepressants would ''play into the hands of those who depict psychiatrists as artful, exploitative manipulators who take advantage of the patient's gullibility.'' There's a reason Brown's script is so subtle. Plenty of evidence exists that placebos can work in a clinical setting so long as at least one party believes they are the genuine article. Therapies that have since been wholly discredited -- from mammary ligation for angina to milk-quaffing for ulcers -- produced precisely the results they were supposed to until they were shown to have no scientific basis for doing so. But can a placebo ever make you better if you know it's a placebo? Doesn't its agency lie only in the reasonable expectation -- the 50-50 chance, at least -- that you're getting the real thing? Does a placebo cease to be a placebo when you call its bluff?
Imagine two patients with lung cancer. Even if both die at age 70, a patient with cancer diagnosed by spiral CT screening at age 59 has a longer survival than one with cancer diagnosed because of symptoms (cough, weight loss and so on) at age 67. The first patient survives 11 years; the second 3 years. But both died at the same age. Survival is increased, but mortality is the same. A second source of distortion results from overdiagnosis, when screening finds cancers that were never destined to progress and cause death. Overdiagnosis bias can also drastically inflate survival statistics, even if mortality is unchanged. To understand why, you need to understand the definition of the two statistics. Both are fractions. Survival is calculated over a fixed period, for example 5 or 10 years. Overdiagnosis inflates both the numerator of the survival statistic (number alive at a specified time) and the denominator (number of diagnoses). For the mortality statistic, overdiagnosis has no effect on the numerator (number of deaths) or the denominator (number studied). Perhaps the easiest way to understand this is to imagine if we told all the people in the country that they had lung cancer today: lung cancer mortality would be unchanged, but lung cancer survival would skyrocket.
Meanwhile, opponents of the breast implant litigation will seize upon the new report as evidence that the tort system is badly flawed, inflicting billions of dollars in unwarranted costs on an innocent industry. But the court cases, and women's decisions about implants, had to proceed at a time when evidence was sparse and conflicting. The companies, marketing a product they could not prove to be safe, elected to settle rather than risk heavy jury verdicts. If the end result was unfair to them, that still does not add up to an excuse for radical restriction of consumer recourse in the nation's imperfect but indispensable legal system.
Each year about one out of five has tested positive, team officials said. Brad Andress, the strength coach for the Colorado Rockies, in an interview estimated that about 30 percent of professional baseball players have used steroids at some point in their career. A general manager on the West Coast, who, like many people, agreed to be interviewed about steroids on the condition of anonymity, said he believed at least a third of major leaguers are steroid users. ''I think it's very prevalent,'' the general manager said. ''You look at some of these massive bodies you see these days. It's like middle linebackers are playing baseball.'' Other coaches and players say that without testing these estimates are entirely speculative. Even these people acknowledge, however, that the weight gains some players have made in a short time would be improbable without the help of steroids. ''It's out there,'' a strength coach in the American League said. ''That's what I can tell you.''
The pills disrupt the menstrual cycle and can cause nausea, which dissuades regular use. So does the price. The morning-after pill typically costs $20 to $30 a dose, more than the cost of a month's supply of birth control pills. While the pill has been most popular among women ages 19 to 29, studies showed it was not widely used by teenagers. Gradually, it is gaining acceptance. Thomas Purdon, who as president of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommended providing advance prescriptions, said some of his colleagues at first opposed this. But the practice, Dr. Purdon said, has become more common. ''We're gradually breaking down the barriers.'' Sales reflect that. Gynetics said its sales had increased 50 percent last year. Plan B has sold three million doses since it was approved in 1999, with the numbers doubling each year. The Alan Guttmacher Institute estimated that the pills prevented 51,000 abortions in 2000.
Genetically modified corn poses a ''negligible'' risk to monarch butterflies, according to a package of six papers that will soon be published in a scientific journal. The papers, the most comprehensive peer-reviewed publications on this issue, could lay to rest one of the biggest controversies over genetically modified crops. ''I don't think there's a need to consider monarchs at risk due to this technology,'' said Mark K. Sears, a professor of environmental biology at the University of Guelth in Ontario, a lead author on one of the papers. Drafts of the papers were released late yesterday by the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences and will be published next week, ahead of an Oct. 1 release that had been planned. The early release came because the Environmental Protection Agency is scrambling to defuse criticism that it has been planning to renew the permits for these genetically modified crops even though the data on the butterfly impact had not yet been widely released to the public.
Dr. Kevin Hughes, director of the breast center at the Lahey Clinic in Burlington, Mass., observed, ''You very seldom run into a 50-year-old woman who says, 'I don't want radiation therapy because I can't drive back and forth.' '' But, he added, ''For older women, it was a recurring theme.'' There was a reason to question the necessity of radiation for elderly breast cancer patients, said Dr. Donald Berry, chairman of the department of biostatistics at the M. D Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. Older women, he explained, tend to have less aggressive, slower growing tumors. And they often have other illnesses. ''If someone has breast cancer at age 70, they are probably not going to die of breast cancer,'' Dr. Berry said. ''They're going to die of something else,'' So, he and others asked, what is the gentlest way to treat these patients and still give them the best chance of surviving their cancers?
The current dispute on the value of routine mammograms began last year when two researchers published a paper examining the major clinical trials and concluding that nearly all were so flawed as to be invalid. Of those found acceptable, said the two scientists, Dr. Peter C. Gotzsche and Ole Olsen of the Nordic Cochrane Center in Copenhagen, the pooled data indicated that no lives were saved by mammography. Women who had the test were just as likely to die from breast cancer as those not screened, they said in a paper in The Lancet. Moreover, the screened women had more mastectomies, more radiation therapy and more surgery. That extra treatment, in the absence of an overall benefit, made the researchers question the widespread use of mammography. Some medical experts applauded the analysis, saying that the two investigators had pointed out serious flaws in the mammography studies and that they had appropriately emphasized that there were real risks of having the diagnostic test.
''In Chinatown and North Beach, there were these tightly bound social networks,'' Dr. Berkman recalls. ''You saw old people with young people. In the Tenderloin, people were just sort of dumped. People were really isolated and did not have ways of figuring out how to make things work.'' A few years later, she was haunted by that observation. She had entered graduate school and was studying Seventh-day Adventists when she began to wonder whether the standard explanation for their longer lives -- a healthy, vegetarian diet -- was enough. ''They were at decreased risk from many, many diseases, even ones where diet was not implicated,'' Dr. Berkman says. And, she adds, ''it seemed they simply had a slower rate of aging.'' Seventh-day Adventists, like the people in Chinatown and North Beach, had ''incredibly cohesive social networks,'' Dr. Berkman notes. Could that be the clue? Thirty years later, studies have borne out her hunch.
That is because the two human coronaviruses known until now cause only the common cold, and they are not even the main cause of that. ''People never got to corona because it's a minor player in causing colds,'' said Mark A. McKinlay, vice president for research and development at ViroPharma of Exton, Pa., which worked on a cold treatment aimed at a different virus. Coronaviruses, named for their crown-like shape, cause serious diseases in many animals, and vaccines have been developed for some animal coronaviruses, but not without great difficulty. ''All of them don't work very well,'' said Dr. Niels Pedersen, professor of veterinary medicine at the University of California at Davis. The animal vaccines often do not provide strong immunity, and the virus can mutate so that some vaccines will not affect it, he said. Some vaccines developed for cat coronavirus actually made the disease worse, he said. Nevertheless, Dr. Pedersen said, SARS might provoke stronger immunity in humans because it appears to invade the body more deeply than some of the animal viruses do, leading to a more powerful immune response. That would raise the prospects for a SARS vaccine.
Correction:  May 26, 2003, Monday  Because of an editing error, an article last Monday about increased use of a drug that can prevent pregnancy within several days after sex misstated the position of the American Life League on making it available over the counter. The group, which opposes abortion and birth control, said it was not petitioning against an application for over-the-counter sales. But it did not disclaim plans to oppose approval.
The office's annual technology costs, he said, were about $50,000, including maintenance and technical support, and he plans to upgrade the three-year-old computers at a cost of $54,000. Those costs do not include the lost productivity in the first year, when the staff was learning to use the new technology. Dr. Baron's office has saved money -- in transcribing medical reports, for example -- and his practice now handles its 6,000 patients with three fewer office employees. He described other benefits, mainly the ability to find information quickly for patients, hospitals, insurers and labs with a few keystrokes. The technology, Dr. Baron said, has also helped make him become a more adept physician. But it has not yet paid off in dollars and cents: the savings in salaries is less than the costs entailed in computerization. ''It is a high-risk venture,'' he said, ''and you do it at your own financial peril.''
Women whose risk is higher because they are over 65, have high blood pressure, are diabetic or have a family history of cardiovascular problems, for example, are often advised to take a baby aspirin daily. That practice is also unlikely to change. The study results may help doctors fine-tune the way they measure cardiovascular risk, taking into account that women below 65 may be more vulnerable to stroke. The message here is that women need to know their individual risk, said Dr. Sidney C. Smith, director of the center for cardiovascular medicine at the University of North Carolina, who helped write the American Heart Associations guidelines for preventing heart disease in women. The results were presented yesterday at the American College of Cardiology meeting in Orlando, Fla., and they will be published in the March 31 issue of The New England Journal of Medicine. The women taking aspirin had about the same number of heart attacks as the participants taking a placebo.
Erich Karl Fuchs had his first AIDS test in 1988. The test, he thought, would confirm the inevitable: it would show he was infected with the AIDS virus. Mr. Fuchs, who is gay, had had unprotected sex over the years with men who carried the virus. It stood to reason that he, too, would be infected. But, to his astonishment, the test showed no evidence of the virus. ''I said, 'This has got to be wrong,' '' Mr. Fuchs said. ''Then I took the test again and I took it again.'' The results never varied. Over the next six years, Mr. Fuchs repeatedly contacted AIDS researchers and asked them to figure out why he seemed to be immune to the virus, H.I.V. But, he said, the scientists told him they were not interested. Finally, in 1994, Mr. Fuchs, still uninfected, tried again at a place he had approached earlier, the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center in New York. This time, he said, the researchers agreed to study him. The result was dumbfounding. Try as they might, in laboratory tests, the center's scientists could not get the AIDS virus to enter Mr. Fuchs's cells.
In fact, there is hard data to support the notion that the emotional alliance between a doctor and patient is itself a therapeutic force -- that a compassionate and optimistic physician can be, as one writer puts it, a walking placebo, that words can be physically comforting. In 1987, a British doctor named K.B. Thomas tried a little experiment on 200 patients in his own practice who came to see him feeling under the weather, but with no abnormal physical signs. Thomas gave one group of patients a definite diagnosis and told them they'd be better in a few days. He told the other that he couldn't be sure what was the matter with them and so couldn't say when their symptoms would clear up. Two weeks later, 64 percent of the patients who received an encouraging consultation had gotten better, compared with 39 percent in the other group. In a study on postoperative pain conducted at Massachusetts General Hospital, half of the patients were randomly chosen to be visited by the anesthetist the night before surgery and treated, poor dears, in a brusque, offhand manner. ''My name is so-and-so,'' the doctor would say. ''Tomorrow I'm going to give you anesthesia. Don't worry; everything is going to be all right,'' and then off he'd go. The same anesthetist visited the other group of patients and this time put on a warm and sympathetic face, holding their hands as he sat on their beds, telling them exactly what to expect in the way of postop pain and assuring them that pain relief would be available. Those in the second group ended up requiring only half the amount of painkilling medication and were discharged an average of 2.6 days earlier.
He says he could have chosen to coast, but the constant striving, he says, has its own rewards. ''You don't get time to get old,'' he said.
For it turned out that the couple, who had been well off to begin with, now had an infusion of cash: a promised malpractice settlement from the hospital where their baby died. They were willing to finance the Ralians in an all-out effort to clone the boy from cells they had frozen after surgery performed two weeks before his death. And while they are not likely to succeed, the fact is that with at least 50 young female followers eagerly volunteering as egg donors and surrogate mothers, the Ralians can't be ruled out, either. Nor, for that matter, could some other renegade group or individual with access to donor eggs and a decent lab. Cloning mammals is a wildly inefficient process that can require hundreds of attempts both to create an embryo and to implant it successfully. Only two or three out of every hundred attempts to clone an animal typically result in a live offspring. But for that very reason, successful cloning is partly a numbers game, in which luck and the ready availability of many donor eggs and borrowed wombs can play as significant a role as technical expertise. ''When you look at what would be critically required to clone a human being, surrogates and a large number of eggs are key ingredients, and the Ralians have those,'' said Gregory Stock, the director of the Program on Medicine, Technology and Society at U.C.L.A.'s School of Medicine. ''They certainly have what's necessary to make a solid attempt.'' Besides, said Stock, ''what they're doing is of symbolic significance. If they don't succeed, someone else will in the next five years.''
''We're advising people to see their internists and hoping the internists comply with the rules so that the 75-year-old with heart failure gets the shot and not a healthy 35-year-old,'' he said. ''I'm concerned some of my patients will get the flu, end up in the hospital and die from it.'' In Norwalk, Marian Wilder, 85, said she was nervous. ''I really need that shot,'' she said. ''I can't afford to get the flu. People my age get sicker than others and we are sick longer. Some even die.'' Tim Callahan, the health director in Norwalk, said the city has received no flu vaccine, but said late last week that he should know soon if supplies will be available. ''We usually give 2,500 to 3,000 shots a year,'' he said. The C.D.C. hoped to vaccinate 50 million people in the high-risk groups, Dr. Cartter said. ''Based on our population, approximately 600,000 of those people are in Connecticut,'' he said.
Recently, scientists made the startling decision to halt a large multinational clinical trial that was testing a new drug regimen for breast cancer. The five-year trial was stopped after just two and a half years when results showed that the study drug cut the yearly rate of breast cancer recurrence by nearly half. The decision has already provoked controversy: breast cancer recurrence is not necessarily the same as death, the critics say, so it is not clear whether the new drug actually saves lives. The National Breast Cancer Coalition, a patient advocacy group, argued that researchers should have continued the study to see if the new drug prolonged lives. The issue gets to the core of biomedical research. What is ideal for researchers may not always be ideal for subjects or for the demands of public health. In this study, the researchers were looking to see if letrozole, which blocks estrogen synthesis, was more effective than a placebo in preventing the recurrence of breast cancer in women who had already taken the estrogen-blocking drug tamoxifen.
Dr. Atkins is survived by his wife, Veronica, with whom he wrote the best-selling ''Dr. Atkins' Quick and Easy New Diet Cookbook'' (Fireside, 1997), and his mother, Norma Atkins of Palm Beach, Fla. His mother exasperated her son by not following his famous diet, he said in an interview with The Detroit Free Press in 2001. ''She cheats,'' he said.
What's more, Dr. Trussell added: ''There is evidence that there is a contraceptive effect of breast feeding after fertilization. While a woman is breast feeding, the first ovulation is characterized by a short luteal phase, or second half of the cycle. It's thought that because of that, implantation does not occur.'' In other words, if the emergency contraception pill causes abortions by blocking implantation, then by the same definition breast feeding may as well. Besides that, the intrauterine device, or IUD, can alter the lining of the uterus and, in theory, prevent implantation. Ron Stephens is both a pharmacist and a Republican state legislator in Illinois, one of the states that are currently battlegrounds between pharmacists who claim the right to refuse to fill prescriptions for emergency contraceptives and women's and civil rights groups that argue that pharmacists must fill all prescriptions presented to them. Stephens not only supports the pharmacists' right of refusal but he also refuses to fill prescriptions for emergency contraception himself. He does, however, fill prescriptions for the birth control pill. When I asked him recently to explain his thinking on the two drugs, he said: ''It's the difference between stopping a pregnancy from happening and ending a pregnancy. My understanding of the science is that the morning-after pill can end a pregnancy, whereas birth control pills will make a woman's body believe she is already pregnant so that the egg will not be fertilized.'' And what if studies show that, in fact, both drugs can prevent implantation? ''Everyone has their natural prejudice,'' Stephens replied. ''I'm going to understand it my way, and the issue is that you should not be forced to do something you believe is immoral.''
Dr. Altroki said he knew what was needed, however. ''What convinces doctors is data,'' he said. ''And we're trying to get some data.''
''I think the meta-analysis was premature in its conclusion,'' Dr. Lichtenstein said. In nearly all the large number of studies completed over the years, she said, ''any hints of adverse effects of E have been pretty mild.'' One further extensive, placebo-controlled study of vitamin E supplements published March 16 in The Journal of the American Medical Association has given some researchers pause. In what are known as the Hope and Hope-Too trials, several thousand men and women with vascular disease or diabetes who took 400 international units of vitamin E daily for up to seven years seemed to have a somewhat increased risk of heart failure, compared with those who were taking a placebo. But because those patients were quite ill before they took vitamin E, and the finding has not turned up in the Women's Health Study, that result may not signal a risk for healthier patients, other scientists say.
''As someone who knows the data, you kind of want to shake people and say, 'Hey, this is not your run-of-the-mill cold,' '' said Dr. Kristin Nichol, chief of medicine at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Minneapolis. ''We're talking about preventing hospitalization,'' said Dr. Suzanne Bradley, an infectious disease specialist and geriatrician at the University of Michigan. ''We're talking about preventing death.'' The C.D.C. estimates that in the United States alone more than 226,000 people every year are hospitalized because of influenza or its complications, and about 36,000 die. Many of the most severe cases occur among people older than 65 -- a group made more vulnerable to flu by underlying chronic disease and by an age-related waning of the immune system that can prevent the vaccine from setting off the more strongly protective response that it does in younger people. Studies show that by far the best way to shield elderly or frail people, and those who have diabetes, asthma or other chronic heart or lung disease, is to immunize not only them but also their families and others who are in close contact with them.
Medicare officials are also reviewing one method of assessing a patient's risk of cardiac arrest using a kind of stress test. Two heart device makers, Medtronic and St. Jude Medical, said they were conducting clinical trials to look at this same method as well as other markers that might help better detect patient risk. Guidant declined to respond to written questions. For now, however, experts have not agreed on a method. ''It is an exciting area potentially, but there may be a limit to what we can do,'' said Dr. Michael Domanski, the head of the clinical trial group at the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, a part of the National Institutes of Health. The price of a defibrillator, like other medical devices, follows its own unique economics, experts say. For example, while the prices of other high-technology devices like computers and digital cameras have plunged, the price of a standard defibrillator has remained steady or declined slowly, industry analysts said.
''At my age, you adjust to things,'' he said. But in Princeton, Dr. Dultz's patient, Ms. Buchanan, is just as devoted to her and to the hospital there. Dr. Dultz said she encouraged her patients to seek second opinions, but only half do, and nearly all decide to stay at the Princeton hospital. As a result, Dr. Dultz said, she ends up operating on about 200 women a year, which puts her and the hospital into the high-volume category. Those who leave for major medical centers tell her they were persuaded by other family members, she added. A small hospital offers more than the mechanics of medicine, Dr. Dultz said. She tries to always be there for her patients, giving out her home phone number and her cellphone number, meeting patients in the emergency room, going into her office to see patients early in the morning or after her staff has left for the day.
In moderate amounts, the scientists argue, stress can be benign, even beneficial, and most people are equipped to deal with it. Preparing to give a speech, take a test or avoid a speeding car, the body undergoes an elaborate series of adjustments. Physiological processes essential in mobilizing a response -- the cardiovascular system, the immune system, the endocrine glands and brain regions involved in emotion and memory -- are recruited into action. Nonessential functions like reproduction and digestion are put off till later. Adrenaline, and later cortisol, both stress hormones secreted by the adrenal glands, flood the body. Heart rate and blood pressure rise, respiration quickens, oxygen flows to the muscles, and immune cells prepare to rush to the site of an injury. When the speech is delivered, the test taken or the car avoided, another complex set of adjustments calms things down, returning the body to normal. This process of ''equilibrium through change'' is called allostasis, and it is essential for survival. But it was developed, Dr. McEwen and Dr. Sapolsky point out, for the dangers humans might have encountered in a typical day on the savannah, the sudden appearance of a lion, for example, or a temporary shortage of antelope meat.
A recent report from the Alan Guttmacher Institute said that more than half of the early abortions in France, Scotland and Sweden were now done with pills rather than surgery but that it took a decade for medical abortions to reach such levels. The report cited barriers including bureaucratic inertia, limited financing for abortions, providers unfamiliar with the method and bad timing -- many women arrived too late for a medical abortion, which is an option only early in pregnancy. Heather O'Neill, a spokeswoman for Danco, said the sales trends in the United States were encouraging, with sales in the first eight months of this year up 38 percent over the same time last year (the company would not release actual sales figures). ''It's just two years and it is growing substantially,'' Ms. O'Neill said of the drug's use. Dr. Vanessa Cullen, vice president for medical affairs at Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said it was too soon to decide the fate of the abortion pill. ''It takes time for these things to occur,'' she said.
There are two main types of diabetes, Type 1 and Type 2. Type 1, which results from the body's failure to produce insulin, usually occurs during childhood or adolescence. Type 2, the most common form of the disease, usually occurs after age 45, and stems from insulin resistance (the body failing to use insulin properly), combined with relative insulin deficiency. Type 2 diabetes can often be controlled through diet, nutrition and lifestyle changes, according to the American Diabetes Association. Dr. Frieden said that the city would take aggressive steps to educate city doctors and hospital workers about diabetes management, and would begin by pushing the public hospitals to get certified in special diabetes-management techniques, as other hospitals in the nation have done. While studies show that even modest weight loss and increased exercise can greatly reduce the symptoms of Type 2 diabetes, Dr. Frieden said, it was more realistic to focus on managing the disease then on pushing people to lose weight.
''Here we are doing all this surgery on people and it's all a sham,'' said Dr. Baruch Brody, an ethicist at Baylor who helped design the study. The study dealt only with arthroscopic surgery for osteoarthritis, not with other common knee operations. After learning of the results, Anthony J. Principi, the secretary of veterans affairs, said yesterday that the study would ''change the practice of orthopedic medicine in the United States.'' But Veterans Affairs Departmentofficials stopped short of saying they would no longer pay for the surgery. Medicare and private insurers typically review such studies before deciding whether to change their reimbursement practices. The 180 participants in the study were randomly assigned to have the operation or to have placebo surgery in which surgeons simply made cuts in their knees so the patients would not know if they had the surgery. After they recovered from the procedures, most patients said their knee pain had improved, and they continued to say they were better for the two years that the researchers followed their progress. But Dr. Nelda P. Wray, who is chief of the section of health services research at Baylor, said, ''On the objective scale, no one was better at any time point.''
Dr. David Satcher, the surgeon general of the United States, says he plans to leave office when his term expires, on Feb. 13. ''I've been saying for several months that I was going to serve out my term, and my term ends on Feb. 13,'' Dr. Satcher said. ''I haven't made a big issue out of it.'' Appointed by President Bill Clinton, Dr. Satcher is praised by admirers for his calm manner and his reports on issues like sex education, mental health and youth violence. He also has issued more reports than any other surgeon general, said his spokesman, Damon Thompson. ''I think he's been a good surgeon general,'' said Dr. Bernard Guyer,  chairman of the department of population and family health sciences at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. ''He's obviously picked his issues and the ones he picked were not obvious ones for this administration.'' Dr. Guyer added that he liked Dr. Satcher's demeanor. ''He's very calm, he has a good presence, '' he said.
Because the total number of calories, a measure of the energy value of food, is what determines whether a person loses weight, stays the same, or gains weight, people ignore calories at their peril, obesity experts say. It is one thing for someone to want to be at the bottom of their weight range, obesity experts said. It may be quite another for them to know how to do it. ''The people who watch and know the calorie content of foods are labeled as overzealous and obsessed with foods,'' Dr. Fernstrom said. But, she said: ''You do need to learn the calories that are in certain portions of food. You do have to have some control over the types and amounts of foods that are going into your mouth.'' It is all too easy for people to eat more than they realize, obesity experts said. In a recent study, Dr. George Bray, an obesity expert at the Pennington Biomedical Research Center at Louisiana State University, asked dietitians to estimate the number of calories they were consuming, thinking that if anyone should get it right, it was these professionals.
But the university committee that has been investigating allegations of fabrications said last Friday that he had falsified data for 9 of the 11 patient-derived embryonic stem cell lines in his June paper. Of the remaining two lines, the panel had said it did not yet know whether they had been derived from patients or from fertilized human eggs. In a follow-up report Thursday, the committee, citing extensive DNA tests, said that none of the stem cells Dr. Hwang said he had created for his June paper was produced through cloning. All the samples presented for the paper that still exist in his laboratory were stem cells extracted from fertilized human eggs at Seoul's MizMedi Hospital, which participated in Dr. Hwang's research, Dr. Roe said. ''We have asked three independent labs to conduct DNA tests on the samples, and all three came out with the same conclusion,'' she said. ''None of the stem cells were patient-specific. They were all fertilized-egg stem cells from MizMedi.''
For it turned out that the couple, who had been well off to begin with, now had an infusion of cash: a promised malpractice settlement from the hospital where their baby died. They were willing to finance the Ralians in an all-out effort to clone the boy from cells they had frozen after surgery performed two weeks before his death. And while they are not likely to succeed, the fact is that with at least 50 young female followers eagerly volunteering as egg donors and surrogate mothers, the Ralians can't be ruled out, either. Nor, for that matter, could some other renegade group or individual with access to donor eggs and a decent lab. Cloning mammals is a wildly inefficient process that can require hundreds of attempts both to create an embryo and to implant it successfully. Only two or three out of every hundred attempts to clone an animal typically result in a live offspring. But for that very reason, successful cloning is partly a numbers game, in which luck and the ready availability of many donor eggs and borrowed wombs can play as significant a role as technical expertise. ''When you look at what would be critically required to clone a human being, surrogates and a large number of eggs are key ingredients, and the Ralians have those,'' said Gregory Stock, the director of the Program on Medicine, Technology and Society at U.C.L.A.'s School of Medicine. ''They certainly have what's necessary to make a solid attempt.'' Besides, said Stock, ''what they're doing is of symbolic significance. If they don't succeed, someone else will in the next five years.''
New Jersey's hospitals were also slow to give way to the mergers that hospitals in other states have used as a way to modernize, cut costs, pool resources and add leverage in dealing with managed care companies. ''In New Jersey, hospitals really grew as a cottage industry and for the most part grew out of small community hospitals,'' said Harvey Holzberg, chief executive of Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital, an academic medical center attached to the state medical school. ''If you looked at this place 10 years ago and you came back and visited today, you wouldn't know you were in the same place.'' As many of the state's largest hospitals merged and began concentrating on specialty care over the last several years, they have taken to newspapers, television, radio and especially billboards to promote them. Vincent D'Elia, vice president for public relations and marketing of the Atlantic Health System, said that nearly all of the advertising in the state can be boiled down to one basic message: ''We're all trying to plant a seed that, all things being equal -- and in a lot of respects they are now -- why go to the trouble to travel?''
It is almost impossible to track cancer business market share figures -- most of the hospitals guard their numbers more closely than any privately held company, and many experts think that community hospitals are simply getting slices of a growing market rather than stealing business from Sloan-Kettering. But since 1996, when Beth Israel opened its Union Square center, the number of patients seen there has risen to 21,174 from 15,027. Further, the hospital's inpatient cancer business has grown 12 percent since 1992. At N.Y.U., new-case growth is similar. In 1993, its department of neuro-oncology saw five patients. In 1997, that number grew to 275. And if Dr. Salick's history in California is any indication, numbers of new cases at hospitals he has been affiliated with should certainly swell this year. A Push in the Direction Of Patient-Friendly Care Dr. Salick, whose mere name tends to raise hackles in more traditional circles, can be credited with helping to push New York's medical centers toward a greater emphasis on patient-friendly cancer care.
The answer for doctors, he decided, was to clear out the warehouse -- getting oldest  appointments off the books by working longer hours for a while -- and then offering patients appointments with their own doctors the day they called for any problem. He persuaded the administrators at his clinic to try it. Dr. Murray found that demand was entirely predictable. For example, at his clinic, which he said was typical, there was a surge of calls from patients every Monday. There were more calls in the fall and winter than in the summer. And if a doctor took care of 2,500 patients, 21 of them on average  wanted to be seen on any one day and 90 percent of the time the number of patients calling for appointments would be 16 to 25. By doing such analyses of their own patients, doctors can figure out how to balance supply and demand, Dr. Murray said. While they might need to work late on some Mondays in the winter, for example, that would  be no different from what they were doing when they had a backlog and were scheduling two or three patients for the same time slots, hoping some would not show up, and trying to fit in emergency patients anywhere they could.
''If you had inflammation and swelling that was very tender to the touch, you would know,'' Dr. Weinstein said. And if you tried to exercise, it would hurt so much that you just could not do it. Dr. Weinstein's advice for injured patients is among the boldest -- he said it's based on his basic research and his own experience with sports injuries, like knee pain and tendinitis of the Achilles and hamstring. Before exercise, he said, take one anti-inflammatory pill, like an aspirin. Ice the area for 20 minutes. Then start your usual exercise, the one that resulted in your injury, possibly reducing the intensity or time you would have spent. When you finish, ice the injured area again. The advice involving an anti-inflammatory pill, Dr. Weinstein said, is based on something surgeons know -- in most cases, a single anti-inflammatory pill before surgery results in less pain and swelling afterward. It also is consistent with Dr. Wang's research because, at least in theory, it should forestall new inflammation from the exercise that is about to occur.
The F.D.A. said the researcher, Dr. Alkis Togias, should have sought approval from the F.D.A. before he began his study. That could have required voluminous work to assess the drug's safety and the study's design, but some medical experts say such a review could have prevented Ms. Roche's death. ''What we are talking about is a system of controls that works to protect human subjects,'' said Dr. David Lepay, who is a senior adviser for clinical science in the office of the F.D.A. commissioner. ''Our regulations are fairly specific. It is not a question of how many subjects are in the study or whether the study is being used for purposes of marketing. What we are talking about is the study of an unapproved drug in a clinical investigation.'' But the agency's policies have been unclear, some medical experts say, and academic scientists doing basic research have not felt bound by the same rules that govern researchers at drug companies.
''More than ever, one needs to individualize treatments to determine if there really is a need for hormones and to find out what regimen works best for each woman,'' said Dr. Roger A. Lobo of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York. Selecting the right treatment is bound to be challenging and confusing because the scientific data behind most menopausal remedies remain sketchy. The study reported last week is the only randomized clinical trial of hormone replacement therapy in healthy women. Women in the study were given Prempro, a combined estrogen-progestin pill that has been the most widely used form of hormone replacement therapy in the United States. (Progestin is added to estrogen because women who take estrogen alone stand a significant risk of developing uterine cancer.) The estrogen in Prempro is derived from the urine of pregnant mares. Other estrogen supplements are made of estradiol, a synthetic copy of the kind produced by human ovaries. Theoretically, the action of estradiol in the body may be different from that of equine estrogen, but there is no evidence to show that it would be any safer for breast tissue or cardiovascular health.
And to add a little spice, there are the Raelians, members of a religious cult who believe the first humans were cloned by space aliens 25,000 years ago and who have taken on human cloning as a sacred mission. According to their chief scientist, Brigitte Boisselier, the Raelians now have five clone pregnancies under way, the first of which is to be delivered by the end of this month. These claims, of course, raise all sorts of ethical, moral, religious and societal questions about whether we dare allow such a step. So it might help us to realize that we have been here before. One of the first steps on the slippery slope that got us here was the one we took a generation ago, when scientists developed the technique of in-vitro fertilization. Opponents warned then that in-vitro fertilization would lead to cloning -- that without the ability to fertilize human eggs in a petri dish, and to culture them to the stage at which they are ready to implant into a womb, cloning would not be possible. So this is the development we were warned about 30 years ago, and it seems to be about to come to pass.
That led scientists, and drug companies, to what sounded like a brilliant idea. Develop a drug that blocks only COX-2 and you could have aspirin's pain-relieving and anti-inflammatory effects without its bleeding problems. You might prevent cancer, by preventing cell proliferation. You might prevent Alzheimer's disease, which has been associated with inflammation. There were even hints that blocking COX-2 might prevent the bone deterioration in osteoporosis. ''Gee, it looked great,'' said Dr. John Baron, a professor of medicine at Dartmouth who has been a consultant to Merck. And it looked as if at least some of the excitement would hold up. Vioxx and Celebrex were developed, tested and shown to relieve pain and inflammation. They became huge successes for Merck and Pfizer. Then company scientists demonstrated that Celebrex could suppress polyp formation in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis. In 1999, the Food and Drug Administration approved Celebrex as a treatment for these high-risk patients.
''It is very unlikely from all we presently know about disease that there will be any breakthrough with this,'' Dr. Jaenisch said. There are other ways to modify animals so that they have genes taken away or altered. Dr. Schatten said he was working on these as well. Dr. Tasca said that to the best of his knowledge the research group headed by Dr. Schatten was the only one financed by the National Institutes of Health that is trying to modify monkeys genetically. The experiments are limited by the biology of the animals. It takes four to five years for a monkey to grow to sexual maturity, Dr. Schatten said, and a pregnancy lasts five and a half months. In the current study, Dr. Schatten started with 224 monkey eggs, mixing them with a neutralized virus that carried the marker gene. The virus slipped into the eggs, taking the gene with it. The researchers ended up with 126 embryos. They selected 40 that looked most promising and those resulted in five pregnancies and the birth of three monkeys. One of them had the added gene, as determined by sensitive molecular assays.
In its most clear-cut acknowledgment that there is evidence linking Agent Orange to illness among Vietnam veterans, the Air Force said in a new report there was ''particularly strong evidence'' tying the defoliant to the onset of diabetes in veterans who had been involved in spraying it over the Vietnamese countryside. The study of 1,000 Air Force veterans who participated in the aerial spraying operation, known during the war as Operation Ranch Hand, found that there were 47 percent more diabetes cases among those who had the highest level of exposure to the herbicide. The rates of illness among the 1,000 veterans were compared to those of 1,300 other Air Force veterans who also served in the war but had no involvement in the spraying of Agent Orange, a herbicide that was used to defoliate trees and remove cover for North Vietnamese soldiers and Communist guerrillas in the south. In a letter attached to the report, which was sent today to Capitol Hill, the Air Force's surgeon general, Lt. Gen. Paul K. Carlton Jr., said the results offered ''the strongest evidence to date that Agent Orange is associated with adult-onset diabetes and some of its known complications.''
THE most dangerous time of life for a black man in America is middle age. After a decade of intense efforts to investigate and reduce the stark gap in life expectancy between between black and white men, researchers and health officials are broadening their focus beyond the violence, drugs and diseases like H.I.V. that claim the lives of many African-American males aged 18 to 35. They are asking not just why so many black men die young, but why so many die younger than they should -- of diseases that should not be so deadly. Death rates for black men are higher than for whites at all ages below 84, but the divide reaches its peak between 45 and 64, the years when diseases that afflict many older Americans begin to hit black men sooner and harder. Stroke and diabetes killed black men between 55 and 64 at about three times the rate for white men their age in 2000, according to the National Centers for Health Statistics, while cancer and heart disease killed black men in that group at rates 50 percent above those for their white peers.
Employers are also concerned. ''Unfortunately, it's the business community that pays for these,'' said John P. Driscoll, who heads a task force on health care set up by the Metropolitan Development Association of Syracuse and Central New York, a group of business leaders here. Scans, of course, are not inexpensive. While prices vary widely, a typical PET might cost $2,000, while an M.R.I. would cost $700 to $900 and a CT, or computed tomography, scan would cost $500 to $700, according to National Imaging Associates. The tests are frequently covered by insurance, however, so patients would often pay much less, depending on their plan. There are signs that more machines may translate into too much imaging. Excellus points to data that suggest use of M.R.I.'s in Syracuse is two-thirds higher than in Rochester, for example, and higher than the national average. ''There tends to be more self-referral in the Syracuse market,'' said John J. Donahue, the chief executive of National Imaging Associates, based in Hackensack, N.J.
When a disease is more common in one sex, it is not unusual for the less-affected sex to get overlooked. It happened with heart disease. Because men get it at a younger age than women, it was deemed a man's disease, and for years women were neither included in the clinical studies nor educated about their risks. And it has happened with osteoporosis, which is considered a disease of postmenopausal women, or more familiarly, a little old ladies' disease. Of the 10 million people in this country with osteoporosis and the 18 million with low bone mass, 80 percent are women. ''It's clear that the burden of osteoporosis and fractures is greater in women, and what has happened is that has overshadowed a smaller but very significant problem in men,'' said Dr. Eric Orwoll, professor of medicine at Oregon Health Sciences University. The lifetime risk for a man's having a fracture of the hip, the spine or the forearm, the most troubling consequence of osteoporosis, is 13 percent or about 1 in 8. That is also the same risk for prostate cancer and about the same as a woman's risk of getting breast cancer.
A second finding is just as surprising to skeptical scientists because it seemed to many like a wrongheaded clich -- you're only as old as you think you are. Rigorous studies are now showing that seeing, or hearing, gloomy nostrums about what it is like to be old can make people walk more slowly, hear and remember less well, and even affect their cardiovascular systems. Positive images of aging have the opposite effects. The constant message that old people are expected to be slow and weak and forgetful is not a reason for the full-blown frailty syndrome. But it may help push people along that path. Still, it is a view that can lead to blaming the victim, and some scientists at first resisted it. Now, though, more and more say they have been won over by an accumulating body of evidence. ''I am changing my initially skeptical view,'' says Richard Suzman, who is director of the office of behavioral and social research programs at the National Institute on Aging. ''There is growing evidence that these subjective experiences might be more important than we thought.''
''It's really disturbing to us that women come into their pregnancies obese and then leave them even more obese,'' said Barbara Hackley, a certified nurse-midwife at the health center of the Children's Health Fund and Montefiore Medical Center in the South Bronx. ''I've seen weight gains during pregnancies of 50 to 60 pounds. We've had 11- and 12-pound babies that are very dangerous to deliver.'' Gestational diabetes, like other forms of diabetes, is characterized by dangerously high levels of sugar in the blood. Many women who develop it have never even heard of the disorder. Afterward, they never think much about it, unless visited by its potential legacy, Type 2 diabetes, a progressive, potentially fatal illness that can produce a barrage of complications, from strokes to decaying limbs. In 2001, the latest year researchers have studied, there were 4,200 cases of gestational diabetes in New York among women who gave birth to a single baby. Experts believe wider education about the condition might allow some heavy women, through better diet and exercise, to avert it before they become pregnant.
Christine Norton  Breast cancer survivor, English teacher, field coordinator for the National Breast Cancer Coalition, Cottage Grove, Minn. I myself trusted mammography. From the time I was 40 I had a yearly mammogram. But when I was 43, I found a lump when I was taking off my bra. It didn't show up on my mammograms, so I was told not to worry about it. Finally, the surgeon did a biopsy, and it was cancer. I was in the group of 15 to 20 percent whose tumors don't show up on mammograms. We're not ready to get rid of mammograms now, because we have nothing to replace them with. But I think folks need to understand that for every five people who have a surgical biopsy, there are four who had it needlessly. Some of those women think: ''I'm just so happy it's over with, that's fine. I don't care that I went in for a $2,000 or $2,500 biopsy, and I was scared out of my mind.'' But we're putting a lot of women and a lot of families through this incredible worry.
Correction:  November 6, 2006, Monday  An article in Science Times on Oct. 17 about cases of puberty in very young children misstated the given name of an Environmental Protection Agency official who commented on efforts to determine whether manufacturing chemicals may play a role. He is Ralph L. Cooper, not Robert. The article also misstated the surname of an E.P.A. official who spoke about possible noncancerous effects of industrial and pharmaceutical pollution. He is Robert J. Kavlock, not Havelock.
Adding demands, Robert Torricelli, who was a congressman at the time, announced that he would seek federal money for a full investigation of all types of cancer in Ocean County, even though Toms River was outside of his district in Bergen County. At that point, Joseph H. Vicari, the freeholder director in Ocean County, also joined in the growing chorus, calling for the state to pursue its own study immediately. In the meantime, the state Department of Health, deluged by hundreds of telephone calls a day, struggled to quell the public's fears over the course of several news conferences. That month, when the Health Department held a public meeting in Toms River High School, about 1,200 residents listened as Michael Gillick gave a speech that would set the tone for the evening -- his body ravaged by the effects of cancer and its debilitating cures and appearing much younger than his 17 years.
Dr. Tvedten likened the regulations to ''death by a thousand scratches.'' In part because of the legal, financial and emotional pressures, the number of doctors in Arkansas who perform more than occasional abortions has fallen to three, down from six in the late 1990's. The youngest, Dr. Tvedten, is 59. This reduction mirrors a national trend. Nationally, 1,819 facilities provided abortions in 2000, down from a high of 2,908 in 1982, according to the Guttmacher Institute. Dr. Edwards, 63, said he felt an obligation to stay in business. ''If we retired, I'm not sure anybody else would come to Arkansas and practice,'' he said. ''We can't get residents from the hospital to come over and see what an abortion is like.'' Threats against abortion clinics are on the decline, in part because of sterner laws to protect clinics. But picketing has remained steady, at 80 percent of clinics. Dr. Edwards and Ms. Osborne said they felt isolated from the local medical community and the community at large. Even the patients often have a negative view of abortion. ''I very often hear, 'I don't believe in this, but my situation is different,''' Ms. Osborne said.
Besides, even women who prefer the method would be loath to call it easy. Medical abortion requires stamina, patience and tolerance for bleeding that will amount to more than a regular period and that may continue in diminished form for several weeks. It can cause nausea and diarrhea, and it always causes cramps -- that's not even a side effect; it's the process itself. A couple of months later, when I talked to the college student I had met in Schaff's office, she said the cramps she had experienced with her mifepristone abortion were severe and had lasted for several hours, though Tylenol and her boyfriend's company had indeed helped, and she was still relieved not to have had surgery. For the 28-year-old secretary, on the other hand, ''there was very little pain. It was nothing compared to labor.'' After a few hours during which she made many trips to the bathroom, she spent the day playing with her young son and doing yard work, and by evening felt well enough to go out to dinner. Yet she was struck by the fact that this was a method ''in which you really confront what you're doing. It was a little overwhelming to see. If you had any kind of doubts about having an abortion, I think it could be difficult. With the surgical method, you lie there and it's done.''
''I don't want to live my life measured out in coffee spoons,'' says Debra Thomas, an information officer at Rice University in Houston. Ms. Thomas takes careful stock of her cholesterol readings and H.D.L.-to-L.D.L. ratios, and knows she should probably worry about them more; her father died of heart disease at age 54, just one year older than she is now. But she says she does not want to sacrifice the things she loves for the sake of lower numbers, which might not protect her anyway. ''I want to enjoy the food I eat and the life I lead.'' Anyone distraught about being told to give up porterhouse steaks or grandma's butter cookies may take solace in a study published 14 years ago but basically ignored  since, partly because it questioned the conventional wisdom about the benefits of a low-fat diet. Scientists at the Harvard Medical School calculated that for high-risk individuals, who smoked and had high blood pressure or other coronary risk factors, a low-fat diet would prolong life by an average of just one year. For healthy nonsmokers with few coronary risk factors, they found the benefits even smaller: a lifetime of abstemious eating (where 30 percent of total calories came from fat, one-third of that from saturated fat) would buy them 3 to 90 days.
By slightly disabling a single gene, researchers report that they have doubled the life span of fruit flies. Scientists said the discovery opens a new arena in the fast-developing field that studies life extension. The result, reported today in the journal Science, shows that flies with a mutation in a gene the scientists called INDY, for I'm Not Dead Yet, had average life spans of 71 days rather than the normal 37 days. Their maximum life spans also increased, to 110 days, from 70 days, an increase of 50 percent. And, the scientists report, the long-lived flies appeared as healthy and fit as normal flies, continuing to reproduce long after most flies without the mutation had died. While it is not yet known how the genetic change prolongs life, the investigators, led by Dr. Stephen L. Helfand of the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington, say they know what the gene does -- it is involved in metabolism. And they say that it looks like the change they elicited made it slightly more difficult for flies to use the calories in their food.
When the scientists vaccinated healthy young mice, the mice grew up without developing the plaques, the researchers said. In diseased mice, they said, the treatment eradicated the plaques, improved the condition of damaged neurons and reduced inflammation in surrounding tissues as well. Elan officials said they would seek permission from the Food and Drug Administration to begin safety trials in humans within the year. They said preliminary discussions with the agency had been encouraging. Anticipating a flood of calls about this development, both Elan and the Alzheimer's Association have set up toll-free telephone numbers. Elan is at (800) 894-7308; the association is at (800) 272-3900. Alzheimer's, characterized by progressive dementia and incapacitation, affects four million Americans and costs the nation $100 billion a year, according to the Alzheimer's Association. The longer people live, the more likely they are to develop symptoms of Alzheimer's. Only a handful of drugs have been approved to treat Alzheimer's and  none provide more than slight, temporary relief of symptoms. For many patients the drugs are ineffective.
But Dr. Daniel Rader, a heart disease researcher at the University of Pennsylvania, said this might not be so easy in patients already doing everything possible. ''You've already counseled them about lifestyle, you've already given a statin, you're already targeting LDL cholesterol to less than 70,'' a very low level that is recommended by the current guidelines, he said. ''So if you find a high CRP, what do you do? Do you tell the patient, 'Oh, this is bad. You're at high risk'?'' A difficult question, Dr. Ridker said, but one he predicted would not arise very often. Most patients with severe heart disease are not taking high doses of statins, he said, so there is room for doctors to experiment with higher doses and different drugs to reduce CRP levels if necessary. ''There is a huge payoff'' if doctors understand that they need to test not just for cholesterol but also for CRP, Dr. Ridker said, adding, ''That alone will save tens of thousands of lives right there.''
''We depend entirely on the truthfulness of the scientific community,'' Dr. Zoloth said. ''We must believe that what they are showing us and what they say has been demonstrated is worthy of our concern and attention.'' The South Korean story, Dr. Zoloth added, raises questions about whether the science is good. ''Good as in true and real and morally worthy of our funding,'' she explained. ''That is so most especially in this twilight sort of terrain with a lot of open questions that people disagree about. At least we thought that the step-by-step slow technical achievements had placed the science on a trajectory.'' ''Is this our version of W.M.D.?'' Dr. Zoloth said. A vocal opponent of cloning human embryos voiced a similar concern. ''Certainly, if these reports are true, it's a tragedy for science,'' said Nigel Cameron, president of the Institute on Biotechnology and the Human Future at the Illinois Institute of Technology.
In response to the Moore case and the bioethics commission, some hospitals added lines to their consent forms saying that patients' tissues might be used in research; others didn't. Some inserted lines saying that patients waive commercial rights to their cells; others didn't. But scientists kept using patients' tissues. ''It's ironic,'' says Lori Andrews, director of the Institute for Science, Law and Technology at the Illinois Institute of Technology. ''The Moore court's concern was, If you gave a person property rights in their tissues, it would slow down research because people might withhold access for money.'' According to Andrews -- and a dissenting California Supreme Court judge -- the ruling didn't prevent commercialization; it just took patients out of the equation and emboldened scientists to commodify tissues in increasing numbers. Andrews argues that this made scientists less likely to share samples and results, which slows research. ''The Moore decision backfired,'' she says. ''It just handed that commercial value to researchers.''
''This is going to save the lives of children and it is going to save families from some tragic experiences,'' William C. Van Slyke, a spokesman for the state's Department of Health, said of the expanded number of tests, which were announced by Gov. George E. Pataki. ''It is going to mean everything to many, many families.'' Doctors and others in the health care industry immediately lauded the move, giving the Pataki administration high marks for acting administratively to expand the testing for disorders even before federal health officials have established a list of national standards. Under the state's plan, the number of metabolic disorders screened for will increase to 31 from 11 by the end of the year, while an additional 13 diseases will be screened for by early 2005, officials said. In a statement, Mr. Pataki said the screening plan would give the roughly 250,000 babies born annually in New York the most comprehensive free screening of any infants in the country. ''No state in the nation has done more to protect its children from illness and disease than New York,'' the governor said.
DR. DEBORAH WINN has had breast cancer herself, so when she speaks to women who have just received the dread diagnosis, she understands the nagging question: Why did this happen to me? Many people suspect environmental pollutants like pesticides, for instance, or car exhaust. But Dr. Winn, head of the extramural epidemiology program at the National Cancer Institute, which conducts studies to look for environmental causes of cancer, does not tell women that pollutants are the cause. ''Usually, I tell them that there are a lot of factors that combine -- it's a multistep process,'' Dr. Winn said. ''There is no one thing. Many aspects of your reproduction are involved. It may have something to do with your genes and in how you repair damage, how you metabolize estrogen.'' Dr. Winn, like many other scientists, said that the quest for environmental causes of cancer -- from chemicals in the water to electromagnetic fields near power lines to radiation from a cellphone -- may be more daunting than the public realizes. Conclusive evidence that any of these things increase one's risk of cancer has never been found, despite repeated studies. And even if there is a link, several experts said, it may be beyond the capacity of science to find it.
The result is a fatty plaque, which can continue to grow as more cells migrate into it. If the plaque ruptures, by mechanisms that are poorly understood, platelets, the blood cells responsible for clotting, can stick to the wounded plaque, forming a clot that can impede blood flow.  Starved for oxygen, the tissue supplied by the blood vessel dies. The first statin was discovered in 1976 by Japanese researchers working on molds. The first statin in the United States, called lovastatin, came out in 1980. Early clinical trials showed it to be more effective, with fewer side effects, than other cholesterol-lowering drugs at the time, like gemfibrozil and niacin. The Food and Drug Administration approved it as a prescription drug in 1987. Statins are believed to ameliorate cardiovascular disease in many ways besides simply lowering cholesterol. They appear to stabilize fatty plaques, relax blood vessels and inhibit clotting. They may promote growth of new blood vessels, as reported by Tufts University researchers in the September issue of Nature Medicine. Some experts believe that, like aspirin, they may soon be used to treat heart attacks immediately after they occur.
The South African scientist who admitted falsifying data in a closely watched breast cancer study was dismissed today, six weeks after American researchers reviewing his work uncovered the fraud and alerted officials at his employer here, the University of the Witwatersrand. The scientist, Werner Bezwoda, claimed in a study showcased last year at the annual meeting of the American College of Clinical Oncology to have found that high-dose chemotherapy, done in conjunction with bone-marrow transplantation, prolonged the lives of some women with advanced breast cancer. It was the only study among five presented that supported the taxing treatment, and its remarkable findings were the talk of cancer researchers, who started looking at how to test the treatment on a far bigger sample of patients. But in a news conference today after a disciplinary hearing for Dr. Bezwoda, Colin Bundy, the vice chancellor of Witwatersrand, said the university concluded that he had misrepresented the results of his study and misled colleagues, the public and, most importantly, his patients.
If that happened, he said, the study would have an over-representation of girls starting puberty early. And no matter how big the study, he added, once there is a skewed collection of  patients the results will be distorted. A second problem was that the health professionals were told to look at, but not touch, the girls' breasts, making it hard to distinguish breast development from obesity, critics said. ''I can tell you that I see many chubby girls and I can tell you that it can look like they have breast tissue,'' said Dr. Paul Saenger, a pediatric endocrinologist at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. Finally, critics said, with no reliable studies from previous years, how can it be said that girls today are starting puberty earlier? Dr. Herman-Giddens discounted the possibility that there was an over-representation of girls whose parents worried about early puberty. And, she said, the health professionals were taught to distinguish excess fat from breast tissue.
Psychologists became an integral part of the assisted reproduction program at Stanford a few years ago, when egg donation grew in popularity. The social and ethical complexities of using a third-party egg demanded psychological consultations, its director said. New York University's program recently began offering stress management programs and support groups for men, women and couples. ''In many situations, the medical part is the simpler part,'' said Dr. Michael Alper, the medical director at Boston IVF. ''It's the frustration of dealing with repeated failures and disappointments that becomes an even greater challenge.'' Resolve reported a 60 percent increase in the number of people calling for referrals to mental health professionals in the last two years. Experts attribute some of these changes to the rise in awareness about infertility. In the past, society has not recognized infertility as a disease or the emotional burden associated with infertility, said Dr. David Adamson, director of Fertility Physicians of Northern California, an infertility center in Palo Alto.
What led physicians to make such monumental decisions, often without consulting parents? The years after World War II represented a high watermark for Freudian psychiatry, with its emphasis on the significance of external genitalia. Physicians adopted this notion of anatomy as destiny, using surgery to create a clear gender identity. Postwar surgeons readily removed ovarian or testicular tissue and refashioned external sex organs. As the saying went, ''A chance to cut is a chance to cure.'' The trouble was, it wasn't clear what was being cured. Or so said a group of intersex people who became activists in the 1990's. Some learned about their histories because of sexual or medical problems involving their genitals. Others obtained their medical records. What united them was anger that their variant genitalia had been treated like a disease and ''corrected'' secretly. Foremost among these activists is Cheryl Chase, born in 1957 with a micropenis. Although initially considered to be a boy, doctors eventually amputated her genitals and told her parents to raise her as a girl. She lived with deception and shame for years before going public.
Middle-age and elderly people who took anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen or naproxen for at least two years were apparently protected from Alzheimer's disease, according to a new study by scientists in the Netherlands. Their likelihood of getting Alzheimer's dementia was one-sixth that of people who did not take the drugs. The study, published today in The New England Journal of Medicine, offers hope for preventing Alzheimer's but falls short of being definitive, experts said. They cautioned that the findings did not mean that people should dose themselves with anti-inflammatories, which can have serious side effects, to prevent Alzheimer's. The researchers, led by Dr. Bruno H. C. Stricker of the Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam, invited every person 55 or older in a suburb of Rotterdam, Ommoord, to participate in their study. Of 10,275 who were asked, 6,989 agreed and were eligible. None had Alzheimer's. But by the end of the study, 293 had developed it.
''This paper is not arguing that there is strong evidence against the LDL targets, but rather that there's no evidence for them,'' said Dr. Rodney A. Hayward, a study author, adding that this was largely because of the way clinical trials had been devised and carried out. ''If you're going to say, 'Take two or three drugs to get to these levels,' you need to know you're doing more benefit than harm,'' said Dr. Hayward, who is director of the Veterans Affairs Center for Health Services Research and Development and a professor at the University of Michigan Medical School. He said he was particularly concerned because there was little long-term safety data about the drug combinations used to lower cholesterol. Several scientists who participated in developing the panel's guidelines acknowledged that the scientific evidence to support the goal recommendation of less than 70 was not as strong as it could be. But, they said, it is also a weaker recommendation.
Israeli researchers tracked 60 infants exposed to S.S.R.I.'s during gestation, and found that 18 of them suffered the syndrome. None of a matched group of 60 infants whose mothers had not taken S.S.R.I.'s had the problem. The women had been taking various drugs, including Prozac, Zoloft, Paxil and Celexa. The withdrawal usually does not require treatment and appears to have no immediate negative consequences, the researchers said. But, they wrote, ''The long-term effects of in utero exposure to S.S.R.I.'s have not been demonstrated clearly.'' The researchers acknowledged that their sample size was small and that they depended on mothers to report their own use of the drugs. Yet stopping the medication also presents problems for mother and child, said Dr. Margaret G. Spinelli, an assistant professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia, who was not involved in either study. One concern about depression in pregnancy is adverse outcomes to the baby, she said.
''Existing patients act as examples of what can be done, what can be achieved,'' Dr. Messa said. ''You select patients who are comfortable with being under the scrutiny of other people. You can use it as a marketing tool.'' Or, in Lia Giovanniello's case, a romantic one. Ms. Giovanniello, 42, had been widowed for five years when she had a breast lift, tummy tuck and a liposuction in mid-August, procedures that cut her from a size 20 to a size 12. She and some friends decided to have an unveiling party and called it ''The Body Showing.'' ''No one really saw until the party, when I wore a very tight dress,'' Ms. Giovanniello said. ''It was black velvet to the floor. The best part was, I got hit on. It was a wonderful, wonderful evening.''
The state's continuing investigation may well uncover answers that bridge the wide disparity between those who question Dr. Arbit's surgical expertise and those who paint him as the victim of an out-of-control professional rivalry. But his case also carries broader implications for the hospital, which is 10 years into an aggressive, multimillion-dollar effort to stop the growing population of Staten Island from defecting to Manhattan for complex medical care. ''The community's confidence in this institution has been undermined,'' said Rick J. Varone, the hospital's president, in an interview. Morale among the hospital's staff has plummeted, he said, and the doctor whom Dr. Arbit blames for his downfall says he will no longer take his cases to the hospital, which sees about 28,000 patients a year. ''The Department of Health's intentions were 100 percent pure,'' Mr. Varone said of its initial inquiries. But before the state became involved, he said, the hospital conducted its own investigation of Dr. Arbit's surgical record and decided that the accusations against him were unfounded. ''The difference between me and the state is that I gave him his day in court,'' Mr. Varone said.
All that extra use would be a boon to drug makers, Professor Reinhardt said. ''With this coverage, there will be a lot more volume,'' he said. ''But there is no additional research needed to make these pills. So a huge amount of this money is just pure gravy.'' Yet another factor, which neither the House nor Senate plan takes fully into account, could result in the biggest cost increases: new drugs. ''There is a tremendous number of therapeutic advances that may be very expensive that will be coming on the market,'' Mr. Goldman said. ''Five years ago, you never would have expected that drug spending is where it is. The idea that this prescription drug benefit is going to cost $400 billion over 10 years may in some ways be ephemeral.'' Professor Reinhardt predicted the need for price controls, thanks to the lack of generosity in the Senate plan. ''My hunch is when stories come out of people with $10,000 drug bills who still are aching, Congress will have to revisit the issue,'' he said. But making the program more comprehensive without raising premiums could raise its cost to as much as $700 billion for one year. The Senate estimate of $400 billion for 10 years, he said, was ''sort of the camel's nose under the tent.''
Scientists say the mutation problems and complexity might be overcome if targeted drugs are used early, when the tumor cells have not mutated as much. Drugs aiming at different targets might be used together. And the latest trend is to develop drugs that hit more than one target. The lack of understanding is shown in the case of drugs that block the epidermal growth factor receptor. These include AstraZeneca's Iressa, approved last year for lung cancer, and ImClone Systems' Erbitux, approved in February for colorectal cancer. The receptor sits on the surface of a cell. When the right growth factor binds to it, it is like a key going into an ignition. It sets off a chain of events inside the cell that leads to cell growth and division. The receptor is far more abundant on some cancer cells than on healthy cells, so it was thought that blocking the ignition would stem the runaway growth of tumor cells. But it has since been found that there is no clear correlation between the number of receptors on a patient's tumor cells and response to the therapy, suggesting that the premise behind drugs' development was flawed.
The temporary offices of AdipoGenix are within walking distance of the Boston Medical Center. That is also where the company gets the bulk of its raw material: fat harvested from surgical patients. Most of those patients have undergone gastric bypass surgery or paniculectomies, in which doctors cut away excess fat and sagging abdominal skin from people who have lost lots of weight. ''People are so happy to give us their fat,'' Dr. Corkey said. In the operating room, the fat is transferred to a sterile water bottle, then placed in an insulated cooler for the short trip to AdipoGenix's labs. There, the company has been testing what happens when fat is mixed with each of 41,000 chemical compounds from Johnson &amp; Johnson's library or from AdipoGenix's smaller collection of compounds. Under a microscope in AdipoGenix labs, fat cells normally look like big round globes. But Dr. Corkey said that some of the compounds have been observed actually changing fat cells -- whether by making them shrink, inhibiting their ability to replicate, stimulating their burn rate or causing them to break down faster.
The F.D.A. estimates that 2 to 4 percent of all people who take pain relievers known as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for a year experience serious ulcer complications. About 13 million Americans regularly take anti-inflammatory pain relievers for arthritis, according to research gathered by Pharmacia, and about 10 percent discontinue the medication because of side effects. The F.D.A., however, still requires Merck and Pharmacia to include warning labels stating that Celebrex and Vioxx could cause serious ulcers. The warnings state how often other anti-inflammatory drugs have caused severe ulcers and say it is not yet known how Cox-2 inhibitors might change those numbers. The Cox-2's can still have some other side effects, including abdominal pain and nausea. And, some doctors say the benefits of the new drugs may have been overstated. Dr. Walter L. Peterson and Dr. Byron Cryer, who have worked as consultants to the companies, said that while the drugs did  appear to reduce the incidence of ulcers in some patients, it was not cost effective to prescribe the drugs to all people with arthritis. They also argued that the use of Cox 2's should instead be limited to people who have a greater chance than others of developing a serious ulcer. ''It is unclear whether all the hype is warranted,'' the two doctors wrote in an editorial late last year in the Journal of the American Medical Association.
Among critics of the study, Dr. Craig P. Cleveland, a Cincinnati clinician, said in a letter to the editor of the journal that it was saying in effect, ''Your tests are wrong and mine are right.'' Because diagnostic blood tests for Lyme are often inaccurate, the critics said, the study was not conclusive. Dr. Steere agreed that tests in some other laboratories were inaccurate but said his were not. And on the subject of prolonged antibiotic therapy, he said, ''I have been discouraged by what I have seen.'' He said he had had better success with medications aimed specifically at individual symptoms that persisted, like pain, depression or chronic fatigue. Taking the other side of the debate, Dr. Brian A. Fallon, an associate professor of clinical psychiatry at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, wrote of three long-term case studies of psychiatric disorders in a 1998 article in the journal Psychiatric Clinics of North America. It was titled ''The Underdiagnosis of Neuropsychiatric Lyme Disease in Children and Adults.''
Strangely, some insights into men's behavior in regard to their health have been gleaned from studies intended to yield information about women. A 2001 national study on ambulatory care found that women, who are in the habit of seeing doctors regularly if only because they need reproductive services, had double the number of annual exams that men had. Other studies have found that because poor women with children may qualify for Medicaid, poor men are more likely to lack health insurance. Advocates say that research must be directed at how specific diseases develop in men, but that studies should also be done to explore the underlying reasons that men do not take better care of themselves. Many psychologists think the problems are rooted in how boys are raised. ''We've socialized men from the time they are boys that 'You have to stand on your own two feet,' 'If you have a problem, handle it by yourself,' 'Be a man, take one for the team,' '' said Dr. William Pollack, director of the Center for Men at McLean Hospital in Belmont, Mass., affiliated with Harvard Medical School. ''All of which means, 'Don't complain, don't ask for help and solve the problem by yourself.' ''
In a bold but potentially frightening effort to turn one of the world's most virulent killers into a cure, scientists and biotechnology companies are trying to tame the AIDS virus and harness it to treat disease. The scientists say they have stripped the human immunodeficiency virus of its ability to cause disease, while leaving intact its ability to infect human cells. Such a crippled virus, they say, could be used to deliver genes into human cells for gene therapy. Several university scientists and biotechnology companies hope to begin clinical trials using the modified H.I.V. viruses to carry genes that they hope can be used to treat diseases such as cancer and hemophilia. At least one attempt will even be made to use the modified H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, to treat AIDS itself. ''It would be ironic to cure AIDS with the AIDS virus,'' said Dr. Inder M. Verma, a professor at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies here, who has pioneered the effort to harness H.I.V. for gene therapy. But he added, ''There is a saying that diamond cuts diamond.''
Even though the F.D.A. staff was worried about Pargluva's cardiovascular risks, the panel included no cardiologists. Like the article, an analysis by an F.D.A. safety officer, submitted before the panel's vote, said there was a doubling of cardiovascular risks associated with the drug. But the safety officer, unlike the article's authors, concluded that there was no clear pattern to the problems. In disclosures with the journal article, Dr. Nissen said he had consulted for Takeda, Eli Lilly and GlaxoSmithKline as well as other companies. All three companies have diabetes products that would compete with Pargluva. But Dr. Nissen said he accepted no money for his consulting activities and instead asked that it be contributed to charity. In a statement yesterday, the F.D.A. said its officials were ''fully aware of the results of the Pargluva clinical trials, both with regard to safety and efficacy, and likewise appreciate the need for careful assessment of risk versus benefit for all drugs, particularly those indicated for long-term, preventive therapy.'' Because diabetes is a chronic disease, drugs used to treat it are frequently taken long term.
''This is not a 'Thou shalt,' '' said Dr. James I. Cleeman, coordinator of the cholesterol education program. ''It is not a hard and fast rule, and the evidence for it is not as strong.'' But, Dr. Cleeman said, there is ''very very strong evidence'' that patients who get their cholesterol under 100 benefit from a lower risk of coronary disease. ''There is tremendous evidence that LDL cholesterol causes heart disease; it's not just along for the ride,'' he said. ''And no matter how we lower LDL -- with drugs, a statin or other, surgery or diet or other means -- the degree of lowering coronary risk is proportional to the degree of LDL lowering.'' ''Do we know the final number that should be the LDL goal?'' he asked. ''That would be discussable.'' Clinical trials have demonstrated that statin use is beneficial and that high doses are more effective in patients at high risk than lower doses, the paper says. But statins have effects other than just lowering cholesterol, Dr. Hayward noted; they have anticlotting and anti-inflammatory effects, and the dose level may be more important than the LDL level achieved by the patient.
The largest project -- $1.3 million for three former Soviet labs in Russia -- is intended to help develop a new vaccine against brucellosis, which threatens animals in the United States and throughout the world. Another project will provide $600,000 to the Vector lab in Novosibirsk, Russia, which once specialized in turning smallpox and other viruses into weapons of war. The grant will finance a study of how Vector can best attract commercial investors in a new vaccine production facility. About $400,000 has also been allocated to helping identify Western drug companies willing to work with former Soviet bioweaponeers on commercial ventures. The foundation also intends to bring at least 20 former Soviet bioweapons scientists together each year with American scientists in the United States to discuss germ weapon threats. In Europe, the foundation has allocated $500,000 to help the Geneva-based World Health Organization establish a revolving fund so that doctors can respond quickly to outbreaks of a mysterious illnesses.
One reason is that everyone in Dr. Henschke's study had CT scans. And so, researchers say, with no comparison group of people who did not have scans, they are left wondering: Does screening, in the end, save lives? ''Intuitively, it makes sense,'' said Dr. Stephen Swensen, a professor of radiology at the Mayo Clinic who conducted a study that was similar to Dr. Henschke's but smaller. Dr. Swensen added, ''It makes sense that if you find a cancer earlier you will save lives.'' But ''the science hasn't backed that up yet,'' he said. Cancer specialists have long known that there are cancers of all types -- and lung cancers are no exception -- that stop growing on their own, or that grow so slowly that they never cause problems. So, some ask, how many of the people said to be cured were never in danger? And how often will people have operations that can involve removing part of a lung, which is risky in itself, when their cancer was not lethal?
The most authoritative analysis yet conducted of the safety of silicone breast implants has concluded that they do not cause the kinds of health problems that have spawned a raft of lawsuits and wrung settlements costing some $7 billion from the manufacturers. The finding should bring at least temporary relief from anguish and uncertainty for more than 1.5 million American women who currently carry such implants in their bodies and may have worried that they were in grave jeopardy. But it is not the final word, and it will bring little solace to the companies that have shelled out billions of dollars to women whose illnesses appear, if this analysis is correct, unrelated to the implants. The new report -- by a panel of experts assembled by the Institute of Medicine, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences, at the request of Congress -- does not mean that implants are free of all risk. The panel said they could cause serious problems in the breast itself when the implant ruptures, or the tissue around it contracts, or infection occurs. This happens with ''relatively high frequency,'' the experts concluded, a fact that manufacturers and plastic surgeons tend to downplay. Although these localized conditions are not life-threatening, they cause substantial pain and discomfort for many women and often require surgery to replace or remove the implants.
Just when we had begun to think molecular biologists might be inching their way toward extending the human life span, we are confronted with a bit of bad news. A scientific paper published last week reports that an important protein that defends the body against cancer also promotes aging in mice. That could pose a terrible quandary for anyone in search of the proverbial fountain of youth. Reducing the levels of the protein, known as p53, might help us ward off the symptoms of aging -- but leave us highly vulnerable to cancer. That doesn't sound like a great trade-off. Of course, nobody ever said that extending longevity would be easy. Mother Nature has failed to design humans for long life. The great shaping force of biological evolution -- natural selection -- favors the proliferation of genes that enable an organism to reproduce successfully. It does not favor genes that would prolong life after the reproductive years are over.
A chronic, dull pain set in, plaguing me whenever I pushed off with my left foot. The best treatment was rest, I reasoned, so I did not run for a month. But I never got better. Then I learned that leading orthopedists say you should exercise when you are injured, so I began running again, using the strategy Dr. James Weinstein suggests -- taking one anti-inflammatory pill and icing before and after exercise. I am no better and no worse, but at least I can run every other day -- for about four to six miles -- at my usual pace. And I cling to the words of Dr. Mininder Kocher: If the pain is no worse when you run than when you walk, running is probably helping. My pain is just as bad when I walk. For now, I've done two things. I bought an electronic device that uses global positioning in case I ever get lost again. And I have made an appointment to see an orthopedist to find out what is wrong with my forefoot.
Public reaction was immediate, and initially at least, laced with bafflement and even horror. Nearly everyone who commented on Dolly made the imaginative leap to human cloning. And while there were those, like the sociobiologist Richard Dawkins, who wrote that ''it would be mind-bogglingly fascinating'' to watch ''a younger edition of myself growing up in the 21st century,'' or the freewheeling physicist Richard Seed, who claimed he couldn't ''wait to clone himself three or four times,'' most people were disturbed by the idea of making genetic copies. If a woman cloned herself and reared the child, she would be her own daughter's identical twin. If she had a husband, he would eventually find himself with a daughter who uncannily resembled his wife. Would this lead to confusion, even incest? And how could a cloned child live out his life freely, knowing he was the recipient of a preworn, consciously selected genotype? Wouldn't it be horrifying to know so much from such an early age about your own fate -- what diseases you'd be likely to get, what personality flaws? What sort of narcissism would cloning unleash in us? What new enticement would it offer to tinker with our genes and produce ''superior'' babies by design? Would cloning, with its seeming guarantees, gain an edge on sexual reproduction, with all of its unknowns? Would babies no longer be conceived but manufactured? What would it say about us if we wanted that?
New data will be presented in San Antonio today on Arcoxia, a new COX-2 inhibitor being developed by Merck. According to an abstract on the conference's Web site, there was no difference in serious side effects between the patients who took Arcoxia and those taking declofenac, an older painkiller. The study involved 7,111 patients with osteoarthritis who had taken the drug for an average of about nine months. The F.D.A. is scheduled to decide whether to approve Arcoxia by the end of this month. Many analysts expect it to delay approval until data on longer-term use becomes available. In the Vioxx study, the higher risk of heart attacks and strokes was not seen until patients took the drug for 18 months. News Analysis
Hwang claimed to have successfully cloned human embryos, which was only a technical accomplishment. It's something that's already been done in animals. If you ask me what really holds this research back, I'd say that the policies of the Bush administration have affected us more significantly than the Hwang debacle. The lack of federal support keeps many of America's brightest young scientists from working in this area. Q. Were you ever skeptical of Dr. Hwang as he reported a succession of breakthroughs in human stem cell research? A. I'd like to tell you I suspected something. I didn't. When his papers were published, I read them carefully. I was impressed by the speed and the efficiency by which he'd cloned a human embryo. We hadn't done those experiments ourselves. So I didn't know how difficult it would be in humans. I met Dr. Hwang and his colleagues several times. He didn't seem nutty, squirrely or deceptive or anything like that.
''I'm the first to say this is a miraculous technique,'' Dr. Schatten said. ''I can't see going to someone who would say, 'Yeah, I can give you a kid but I want another 35 years of research before I'm going to touch this.' ''
''As someone who knows the data, you kind of want to shake people and say, 'Hey, this is not your run-of-the-mill cold,' '' said Dr. Kristin Nichol, chief of medicine at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Minneapolis. ''We're talking about preventing hospitalization,'' said Dr. Suzanne Bradley, an infectious disease specialist and geriatrician at the University of Michigan. ''We're talking about preventing death.'' The C.D.C. estimates that in the United States alone more than 226,000 people every year are hospitalized because of influenza or its complications, and about 36,000 die. Many of the most severe cases occur among people older than 65 -- a group made more vulnerable to flu by underlying chronic disease and by an age-related waning of the immune system that can prevent the vaccine from setting off the more strongly protective response that it does in younger people. Studies show that by far the best way to shield elderly or frail people, and those who have diabetes, asthma or other chronic heart or lung disease, is to immunize not only them but also their families and others who are in close contact with them.
Then the computer was fed genetic patterns from 19 patients without being told what had happened to those patients. Using the signatures it had developed, the computer predicted the outcome correctly in 17 cases. Similar studies with various cancers have been done at Stanford and the National Institutes of Health and by scientists in Boston working with Dr. Golub, who is receiving an award today for his work by the American Association for Cancer Research. In one study, Dr. Golub and colleagues found gene patterns that correlated with various outcomes for medulloblastoma, a childhood brain cancer. The disease is now treated with brain surgery to remove the tumor, followed by radiation and chemotherapy. But while many children survive, the radiation often leaves them with learning disabilities and loss of hearing. ''If we can identify some of the tumors that have a better prognosis we can cut back on the radiation we give,'' said Dr. Scott L. Pomeroy, associate professor of neurology at Harvard and first author of the paper, which was published in Nature in January.
The charges are said to have been based on files of nine patients, and include accusations Dr. Burrascano failed to diagnose or treat them properly or to follow up adequately on their conditions. Five of the patients were at the rally, denying the accusations and expressing indignation that their files had been used without their knowledge. All said Dr. Burrascano had brought them back to health or had improved their conditions after long periods of suffering. One of the patients, Ruth A. Giglio of East Hampton, 77, said the disease had caused her constant fatigue, arthritic pains, heart palpitations and other symptoms. ''He slowly brought me along, with detailed explanations of what he was planning to do, trying different treatments, different kinds and dosages of antibiotics, trying physical therapy -- until I finally returned to my old self,'' Ms. Giglio said. ''To have taken my files and put together any case against Dr. Burrascano is a kind of medical McCarthyism.''
For some common illnesses, there may be no difference in outcomes between community hospitals and academic medical centers, ones that are connected to medical schools and that serve as referral centers for patients with the most complicated, difficult cases. For heart surgery, what matters appears to be the surgeon's experience, not the number of such patients at the hospital. But for some cancers, the important factor seems to be the total number of patients with that cancer at a hospital, not the number any particular surgeon sees. Everyone agrees that medical statistics are not the only issue. People want to like and trust their doctors. And with a community hospital, patients have the convenience of staying close to home and may be more likely to receive warm, personal care. That was an important consideration for Mary Bruce Buchanan, a 60-year-old retired real estate broker from Flemington, N.J., whose decision about where to go for cancer care went against her own upbringing. Her father, a surgeon, had trained at the University of Pennsylvania and, she said, ''when anything was really wrong, that was where you went.''
John Tyson  Rancher, Virginia City, Nev. Had I not gone in for a P.S.A. test, I wouldn't be here right now. I was diagnosed with prostate cancer seven years ago, almost right on my 50th birthday, when I went in for a regular checkup. My P.S.A. number was 7.5. They did another one, and it came back 6.5 I chose to have a radical prostatectomy because I was young, my cancer was growing fast, and it was my best chance of survival. As far as I'm concerned I'm 100 percent cured. They found the cancer when it was so small; it was confined to the prostate. And I'm very happy to tell you that I've had no side effects. Everything works. I have much to be grateful for. Dr. John W. Coleman  Urologist, New York City I'm recommending that my patients have a P.S.A. test when they're about 50 years old, unless they have a family history. Then it's earlier. It's basically the only test you've got. And if you do it on a yearly basis and someone is running with reasonably steady levels, and suddenly their P.S.A. jumps, it's your one opportunity to investigate before the tumor can spread.
Moreover, Dr. Fraumeni said, ''for the exposed unborn child, the closer you were to the bomb's epicenter, the greater the risk'' for health issues. Beyond his service to the casualty commission, Dr. Miller made a wide study of childhood cancer causes, often specializing in the connections between congenital deformities and the development of certain cancers. With Dr. Fraumeni, he studied a tie between aniridia, the congenital absence of an iris within the eye, and a kidney cancer known as Wilms's tumor. Other researchers later used the observation to make successful genetic studies of how cancers form, in children and adults alike. Dr. Miller also looked at a tumor of the eye, retinoblastoma, and its connection to a bone cancer of the knee sometimes found in retinoblastoma patients. He described his larger interest as an ''instinctive search for patterns in designs, disease occurrence or clustering of any sort.'' As an epidemiologist, he studied seeming clusters of cancer cases, particularly of childhood leukemia, many of which remain unexplained.
From July 1992 until September 1993, 225 pediatricians, nurses and physicians' assistants in 65 private practices in the United States assessed 17,077 girls aged 3 to 12 who came into their offices. The girls, they reported, were entering puberty about a year before textbooks said was normal. Black girls began developing breasts at an average age of 8.87 and pubic hair at an average age of 8.78. For white girls, the average ages were 9.96 years for breasts and 10.51 years for pubic hair. With lower average ages for the onset of puberty, the lower end of the normal age range was also pushed back, to age 6 for black girls and age 7 for white girls. Many textbooks said the criteria for premature puberty, based on past experiences in finding girls with medical problems, were signs of sexual development  before age 8 in blacks or whites. But the average age at menstruation in Dr. Herman-Giddens's study was about the same as the textbooks said. Dr. Herman-Giddens, an adjunct professor at the University of North Carolina whose degree is in public health, was not surprised by the results.
The new vaccine could also deal a longer-term blow to Pap testing, which works by detecting abnormal cells from the cervix that could be on their way to becoming cancerous. It is not that women would no longer need screening because they had been vaccinated. The vaccine, approved only for girls and women 9 to 26 years old, does not protect against all strains of HPV that cause cancer. If a precancerous lesion is present, the Pap test will detect it only 50 percent to 80 percent of the time. Pap testing is effective only because it is done often; a lesion can take 10 years to turn into a cancer, so a yearly test will probably find it in time. As more women get the HPV vaccine, however, the number of lesions will decline, making the Pap test more costly per cancer case detected. And with fewer problems to detect, said Dr. Eduardo L. Franco, a professor of epidemiology and oncology at McGill University, the technicians who read Pap smears may lower their guard -- and their accuracy.
The team is focusing on Mendelian diseases, the relatively rare type caused by disorder in a single gene. But Dr. Birk said the research might also help the team members find genes that combine to cause more common problems like diabetes, epilepsy, asthma and obesity. The findings on Mendelian disease could be used by the major Bedouin populations in neighboring Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia with similar gene mutations. But so far, Dr. Birk said, scientists in those countries have refused offers to collaborate. ''It's so essential and basic that we should be working together,'' he said. ''It's funny. The only Middle Eastern people we are collaborating with are the Palestinians.'' The cooperation sometimes falters. On a recent morning an exasperated Dr. Abuelaish stormed into Dr. Birk's office. He was furious that Israeli soldiers at the crossing from Gaza into Israel had made him wait two hours to pass through and then asked him to take off his shirt to make sure he was not wired with bombs.
''McClellan is so personable and comes across as a person of such great integrity that it's hard to find somebody who says something negative,'' said Wayne Pines, who was the agency's associate commissioner for public affairs under Dr. David A. Kessler, who is now a consultant to companies dealing with the F.D.A. The same cannot be said of Dr. Kessler, who served under President Bill Clinton and the first President Bush and angered industry officials by halting the sale of silicone breast implants and seeking to regulate tobacco as a drug. Dan Cohen, the new vice president for global government affairs at Inamed, which the F.D.A. told to do more research if it wanted to return its silicone breast implants to the market, said Dr. Kessler was ''overly political, capricious, and didn't seem to have science at heart as opposed to an agenda.'' Dr. Kessler would not discuss how his management style differed from Dr. McClellan's, but he did compliment his decisions on breast implants and supplements. ''He got it right,'' Dr. Kessler said.
The embryo selection method, called preimplantation genetic diagnosis, has been available for about a decade, but was reserved almost exclusively for couples at risk for having babies with certain genetic diseases. Doctors can test their embryos to see if they have the disease gene before implanting the embryos in the woman's uterus. But it has always been clear that the method could easily be used for sex selection. It is simple to see if the embryo is male, with an X and a Y chromosome, or female, with two X chromosomes. Fertility specialists say patients often ask if they can use preimplantation analysis solely to select the sex of their embryos. But most doctors say they refused. ''I could have financed my research from now until the day I die if I honored all the requests,'' Dr. Grifo said. ''But this is not the way we want this to go. We want to protect this technique for our genetic patients.''
J'Vante Anderson is 16, the age her mother was when she had her first child. Growing up in one of Atlanta's poorest neighborhoods, she has seen the cycle: teenage girl has baby, drops out of school, goes on welfare and raises a child who in turn becomes a teenage mother. ''I want to break that cycle,'' she said, her turtleneck perfectly coordinated with her pink velvet jeans. ''I have a life, and I do plan on living it.'' She does not believe in abortion, so she is choosing abstinence. Newly 22 and newly married, Allison C. has just had her second abortion in a year, at a clinic near Tacoma, Wash. She does not think of herself as ''one of those people'' who use abortion as birth control. ''But if it is, who cares?'' she said. Thirty years after Roe v. Wade, the rate of abortions has come almost full circle, declining to its lowest level since 1974.
By the time the rescues began, my father had completed his medical residency, spent a few years working at various gynecological clinics run by the Erie County Department of Health and opened a medical office. It was on the ground floor of a two-story redbrick building that bordered a Mobil gas station, on the corner of Kenmore Avenue and Colvin Boulevard. It wasn't an abortion clinic but a regular OB-GYN practice, and most of his patients came for routine gynecological checkups. Many were women whose babies he delivered. Abortions were performed on certain days. As strange as it may seem, my father arranged things this way without considering the political consequences, much less the possibility that doing so might one day bring protesters to his door. This is partly because there were no protesters back in the 70's, when he was completing his professional training. It is also because he had come to Buffalo from another country, Israel, a nation racked since its founding by turmoil and danger -- which my father grew accustomed to weathering with the steely resolve all Israelis of his generation were expected to display -- but not on account of abortion. Until 1977, abortion was banned under Israeli law. Yet it was an open secret that many doctors performed abortions in their private offices. My father had seen that unplanned pregnancies were a reality. It made sense to him that given its intensely private nature, the decision to have an abortion should be left to the pregnant woman and her doctor, not to a government bureaucrat.
Others have different views on how to weigh H.D.L. in treatment decisions. Many, like Dr. Alan Garber, a professor of internal medicine at Stanford, look at overall risk. The starting place, he says, is assessing how likely it is that people will have heart attacks, given everything known about their L.D.L. and H.D.L. levels, their blood pressure, their family history and whether they smoke or have diabetes. Dr. Garber said that with data from recent studies, it looked increasingly safe to treat high L.D.L. levels and ignore other factors. But, he said, ''that's not the way I would do it.'' One concern is that people who are otherwise at low risk for heart disease would gain little by taking drugs to reduce their L.D.L. levels but would spend years paying for the drugs, which can cost $100 a month. Dr. David Waters, of the University of California at San Francisco, also looks at overall risk, but lets a high H.D.L. level counteract one of the other predisposing factors to heart disease in deciding who needs to take drugs to lower L.D.L. levels.
The goal, Dr. Rosenkrantz said, is to move the patients on. ''The worst thing that can happen is for someone to walk into your office and say, 'I have an interesting case for you.' Financially, you'd be dead.'' Even seeing patients in the hospital can become an exercise in time management, Dr. Rosenkrantz said. ''We have doctors who do rounds at 4 a.m.'' A second driving force behind medical care in Boca Raton is the demands of patients. They want lots of tests and specialists, they refer themselves to specialists, they ask for and get far more medical attention from specialists than many doctors think is reasonable or advisable. ''This Medicare card is like a gold card that lets you go to any doctor you want,'' Dr. Colton said. ''I see it every day. When there's no control on utilization, it's just the path of least resistance. If a patient says, 'My shoulder hurts, I want an M.R.I., I want to see a shoulder specialist,' the path of least resistance is to send them off. You have nothing to gain by refusing.''
The 1918 virus, in contrast, was highly infectious, and in recent weeks the fear that a transformation of one of the current bird flus could make it infectious in humans has prompted politicians of both major parties to scramble to demonstrate that they are taking the threat of an avian flu outbreak seriously. Bush administration officials have been talking about pandemic flu preparedness for years, and they say they will soon release a pandemic flu plan, in the works for more than a year. Senate Democrats say that the administration is not doing enough, and they are writing their own bills that call for more spending and coordination. President Bush this week asked the leaders of the world's top vaccine manufacturers -- Chiron, Sanofi-Aventis, Wyeth, GlaxoSmithKline and Merck -- to come to the White House on Friday to discuss preparations for pandemic flu, said people with knowledge of the meeting who insisted on anonymity because the White House has not yet announced the meeting.
Mr. Torretta, meanwhile, had a far more common problem -- degradation of the joint from arthritis that probably stemmed from a lifetime of running, football and other outdoor activities. Dr. Macaulay warned both patients that he could not be sure their bones would support resurfacing until the surgery began and that he might have to switch to a total hip replacement. Both men now face a number of risks common to all hip procedures, including infections or fractures. They have also been warned that in about 1.5 percent of resurfacing cases, a fracture occurs in the femoral neck -- a thinner portion of the bone below the head. The problem, which is rare in total hip replacements, can sometimes be treated by implanting pins but usually requires a procedure akin to total replacement. There is also uncertainty about the potential health impact of metal ions scraped off as the cup rubs against the cap. None of the patients in clinical studies displayed problems from such ions, whose electrical charge makes them highly reactive. But lab studies have raised fears they could cause cancer.
Younger women have a very low risk of stroke to start with, and a slight increase is still not much of a risk. If estrogen makes younger women feel better, she said, they should take it until they are 50, she said, and then try to go off it. Dr. Brzyski also tells younger women to take the drug until the normal age of menopause, saying, ''I think that in most patients, the benefits outweigh the risks.'' Dr. Isaac Schiff, chief of obstetrics and gynecology at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, said he had turned to data from birth-control pills to try to assess the risk of estrogen in women under 50. ''We're really reaching here,'' he said. But he added that estrogen could protect bones and relieve menopause symptoms. Studies of birth-control pills, he said, provide some assurance of safety. The pills contain much more estrogen than women take for menopause, but have not been associated with breast cancer.
Phil Wheeler, the director of the United Auto Workers for the Northeast, called the contract ''a major breakthrough.'' ''We ended up being able to work out an agreement even though a lot of people said it couldn't be done,'' he said. ''We ended up establishing a decent relationship where we know how to deal with each other in the future.'' Some graduate students also expressed delight. ''It's a great agreement,'' said Julen Esteban-Pretel, a doctoral student in economics. ''We've achieved most of the things we want to get. We didn't give up anything. We're going to get substantial raises for everybody. We're going to get health insurance, which is very important.'' Until now, stipends for N.Y.U.'s graduate teaching and research assistants generally ranged from $9,000 to $14,000 a year. Under the agreement, stipends will be raised to at least $15,000 this year, retroactive to Sept. 1, with the stipend rising $1,000 a year for the next three years.
The most authoritative analysis yet conducted of the safety of silicone breast implants has concluded that they do not cause the kinds of health problems that have spawned a raft of lawsuits and wrung settlements costing some $7 billion from the manufacturers. The finding should bring at least temporary relief from anguish and uncertainty for more than 1.5 million American women who currently carry such implants in their bodies and may have worried that they were in grave jeopardy. But it is not the final word, and it will bring little solace to the companies that have shelled out billions of dollars to women whose illnesses appear, if this analysis is correct, unrelated to the implants. The new report -- by a panel of experts assembled by the Institute of Medicine, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences, at the request of Congress -- does not mean that implants are free of all risk. The panel said they could cause serious problems in the breast itself when the implant ruptures, or the tissue around it contracts, or infection occurs. This happens with ''relatively high frequency,'' the experts concluded, a fact that manufacturers and plastic surgeons tend to downplay. Although these localized conditions are not life-threatening, they cause substantial pain and discomfort for many women and often require surgery to replace or remove the implants.
''It is ridiculously inexpensive to practice good quality care away from the hospital setting,'' said Dr. C. Gresham Bayne, who in 1985 established the Call Doctor Medical Group in San Diego, Calif., one of the country's first organizations to provide comprehensive medical care in the home. ''The tools of the trade are now that good,'' he said. ''This morning, I visited a patient who fell and hurt her back. For $6.50, I drew blood, put four drops of it on a computer cartridge, slipped it into a machine the size of a telephone hand piece, and in two minutes, I got all of the information about her blood levels that any emergency room physician needs to know. This would have cost $350 in the local E.R., and it would have taken hours to get the tests.'' Treating patients at home also helps them in ways that can't be measured in dollars.
That is because the two human coronaviruses known until now cause only the common cold, and they are not even the main cause of that. ''People never got to corona because it's a minor player in causing colds,'' said Mark A. McKinlay, vice president for research and development at ViroPharma of Exton, Pa., which worked on a cold treatment aimed at a different virus. Coronaviruses, named for their crown-like shape, cause serious diseases in many animals, and vaccines have been developed for some animal coronaviruses, but not without great difficulty. ''All of them don't work very well,'' said Dr. Niels Pedersen, professor of veterinary medicine at the University of California at Davis. The animal vaccines often do not provide strong immunity, and the virus can mutate so that some vaccines will not affect it, he said. Some vaccines developed for cat coronavirus actually made the disease worse, he said. Nevertheless, Dr. Pedersen said, SARS might provoke stronger immunity in humans because it appears to invade the body more deeply than some of the animal viruses do, leading to a more powerful immune response. That would raise the prospects for a SARS vaccine.
''If they can last 30 to 35 years, then even for my 50-year-old patients you're talking about their lifetime,'' Dr. Laskin said. ''That's what we've been looking for all these years.'' The Cox-2 Breakthrough For more than three decades, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs -- aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen and others -- have been mainstays of medical treatment for the pain, stiffness and inflammation of osteoarthritis. But these drugs, referred to by doctors as Nsaid's, can also cause major gastrointestinal problems, including ulcers and bleeding. In 1998, the food and drug agency approved celecoxib (Celebrex), the first of a new class of anti-inflammatories known as Cox-2 inhibitors. A second, rofecoxib (Vioxx), was approved in 1999. Celebrex and Vioxx cost much more than standard drugs and are no better at relieving arthritis symptoms. Their crucial advantage is that they inhibit the Cox-2 enzymes that cause pain and inflammation while, in contrast to standard anti-inflammatories, largely sparing the ''good'' Cox-1 enzymes that protect the stomach lining.
With all the hoopla over advances in genetics and reproductive technologies in recent months, it was only a matter of time until some headline-seeking scientist would try to create a human baby through controversial cloning procedures. Even so, the assertions this week by three separate scientists that they would soon try to clone a human embryo and implant it in a woman are appalling. This is still a highly experimental technology that carries enormous and unpredictable risk for the well-being of any human that might result from this procedure. Although all three scientists apparently plan to clone and implant their embryos abroad, their reckless ventures strengthen the case for Congressional legislation to ban all human reproductive cloning in this country before some equally cavalier scientist tries to perform the procedures here. But the ban must be imposed with care. Congress must not be stampeded into banning a more benign form of cloning -- called therapeutic cloning -- that holds promise for medical purposes and is unrelated to human reproduction.
And it is not so simple for people to keep track of their blood pressure. Machines in drugstores and supermarkets are not always accurate. Doctors may require appointments to check blood pressure. Even when people do try to control their pressure, doctors may not prescribe enough drugs or high enough doses. ''They're on a couple of drugs, and the doctor doesn't want to push it,'' said Dr. Jeffrey A. Cutler, a consultant to the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute and a retired director of its clinical applications and prevention program. The result is that no more than half the people with high blood pressure have it under control, Dr. Cutler said. He estimated that half of all strokes could be prevented if people kept their blood pressure within the recommended range. Another lost opportunity to prevent strokes is the undertreatment of atrial fibrillation, in which the two upper chambers of the heart quiver. Blood can pool in the heart and clot, and those clots can be swept into the brain, lodge in a small blood vessel and cause a stroke.
THE continuing battle between diet gurus promoting a low-fat, high-fiber lifestyle and those preaching a high-protein, low-carbohydrate approach is taking to the air this week, with a 30-second television commercial sponsored by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine. The committee views high-protein diets as potentially dangerous. The commercial, created by Tidepool Media Productions in Washington, tells viewers that a high-protein, meat-intense diet can promote osteoporosis, kidney disease and possibly colon cancer. ''You have more to lose than just weight,'' a voiceover says. The commercial never mentions Dr. Robert Atkins or his diet, but the Atkins diet is clearly a target. The spot is part of the committee's broader plan to dispel a ''flood of misinformation'' about high-protein diets, like the one promoted by Dr. Atkins, said Neal D. Barnard, a physician who is the president of the group, which says it has a membership of 5,000 doctors and 100,000 supporters. Dr. Barnard said the Atkins diet was not mentioned by name in the ad because other high-protein diets like the Zone are also popular.
Dr. Kelly D. Brownell, the director of the Yale Center for Eating and Weight Disorders, said the number was first suggested in a 1959 clinical study of only 100 people. The finding was repeated so often that it came to be regarded as fact, he said. Since then, nearly all studies of weight-loss recidivism have followed patients in formal hospital or university programs, because they are the easiest to identify and keep track of. But people who turn to such programs may also be the most difficult cases, and may therefore have especially poor success rates. To get a more accurate picture, two researchers are studying long-term dieters for a project called the National Weight Control Registry, and have found it surprisingly easy to collect success stories. About half the people who maintained a substantial weight loss for more than a year had done it on their own, they found. This suggests that many people have found ways to lose weight and keep it off, but have never been counted in formal studies.
Each year, 300,000 Americans have bypass surgery to improve blood flow to their hearts. Most of the operations succeed. But a minority of patients leave the hospital confused or forgetful, unable to think clearly or unable to concentrate. ''Pumpheads,'' some doctors privately call those patients, and the information shows that a third or more may be affected. As the term implies, doctors attributed the problems to the pump, the heart-lung machine that takes over during surgery when doctors literally stop a heart from beating so that they can repair its blocked vessels. Doctors theorize that something about the pump -- little fat fragments or tiny clots that may be thrown into the blood or maybe blood pressure levels in the brain that are too high or too low -- may be causing damage. Doctors also thought they had a solution to the problem, avoiding the pump altogether with surgical tours de force in which they actually operate on a slippery blood-coated beating heart.
Flu viruses mutate very rapidly, and each season's version is a little different. But your immune system preserves a memory of its previous encounters with a flu, which are dragged up, like old photographs from the back of a closet, every time your system responds to a new flu invasion. Very rarely, a virus comes along bearing a surface protein that your immune system has never seen. Often this occurs when a single host -- it could be a pig, but might also be a person -- becomes infected with two strains of flu simultaneously, one from a mammalian lineage, the other from an avian one. Inside the host, the eight gene segments of the two strains are shuffled randomly into new configurations, like the symbols in the window of a slot machine. If one of these configurations happens to be both pathogenic and transmissible from human to human, jackpot: a pandemic ensues. The 1957 and 1968 pandemics both probably occurred through this kind of ''reassortment.'' For a long time, most scientists believed the same kind of gene-shuffling triggered the far more calamitous 1918 pandemic as well.
Underscoring the difficulty scientists face in finding genes that underlie complex human behaviors, a team of researchers reported today that they had been unable to confirm a widely publicized study linking male homosexuality to a small region of one chromosome. Experts in behavioral genetics say  the new report, which appears in the journal Science, does not invalidate the notion that genes influence sexual orientation, which many scientists believe is the case, on the basis of other types of studies. Nor do the new results completely rule out the possibility that a gene or genes for homosexuality lie on the chromosome in question, the X-chromosome. But the failure to replicate the earlier study is typical of the zigzagging course of research efforts to ferret out genes that influence complicated traits, or that contribute to illnesses with a behavioral component, like schizophrenia, manic depression, alcoholism and hypertension. And since the question of whether homosexuality is innate is politically charged, the new findings will very likely revive discussion of the issue.
But he said that, tragic as the death was, some researchers might question whether that evidence would have been so clear to a typical scientist in the middle of an experiment. ''Anybody doing clinical research dealing with human beings knows that there are risks,'' Dr. Gold said. ''Accidents do happen.'' The purpose of the hexamethonium experiment was to test a theory held by Dr. Togias and a few colleagues about what happens during an asthma attack. The airways of all people constrict when exposed to certain irritants like pollen, pollutants or some drugs. People without asthma can usually make the airways relax again quickly just by taking deep breaths. People with asthma cannot do that. According to Dr. Togias's theory, in healthy people, the expansion of the airways during deep breaths may send a signal along nerve pathways to the brain, which sends back a return signal that relaxes the airways. But in people with asthma, the signal is somehow blocked, and the airways remain constricted.
Lillie Shockney  Breast cancer survivor, registered nurse, Johns Hopkins Breast Center, Baltimore I'm a huge fan of mammography. My cancer was found accidentally on a mammogram. It was 10 years ago. I was 38, and I had a baseline mammogram. I had found a lump on my right breast, which ended up being a cyst. But they found an invasive tumor in my left breast. It was just four millimeters, very tiny, and would only have been found on a mammogram. If I had waited until I was 40 to have my baseline, I probably would not be talking with you right now. I had no family history, no known risk factors, like smoking or early menstruation or having a first child after age 30. Seventy percent of women with breast cancer have no known risk factors. Mammography is still at this moment in time our best weapon for early detection. I cannot imagine a woman not pursuing it.
Dr. Davies of Einstein, who also directs an Alzheimer's research center at North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, says he believes that plaque is a symptom of the disease rather than a cause. He questions whether eliminating plaque will help those with Alzheimer's. ''It's like trying to clear up scar tissue and expecting things to get better,'' he says. He subscribes to an alternative theory that focuses on tau, a protein found in the tangled nerve fibers in the brain of Alzheimer's patients, as the real culprit. His interests also frame a larger divide in the Alzheimer's world. Those who embracethe beta-amyloid protein theory are nicknamed ''Baptists.'' Those who finger tau as the villain are called ''Tauists.'' The two sides recently have moved closer together, more willing to say that beta-amyloid and tau may be working together in Alzheimer's. If the two camps continue to merge, it may mean that in the long run Alzheimer's patients will be treated with more than one drug, the way multipronged treatment regimens are used for cardiovascular problems.
Veterans groups have been closely following the new effort. Michael O'Rourke, the assistant director of health policy for the Veterans of Foreign Wars, a group with 2.7 million members, said he was encouraged. ''I believe we learned some lessons,'' Mr. O'Rourke said. The lessons emerged from a chastening experience after the last gulf war. About 700,000 men and women were deployed in 1991 and about 15,000 to 20,000 of them later complained that they had a troubling chronic illness with symptoms like fatigue, aches and pains, difficulty thinking or faltering memories. The complaints became known as gulf war syndrome or gulf war illness, and they took doctors by surprise. Medical experts have been unable to identify a specific cause for the symptoms, and when they suggested they might be a reaction to stress, some veterans were scornful, suspecting that the government knew of a problem and was covering it up.
An independent panel of 13 scientists convened by the Institute of Medicine at the request of Congress has concluded that silicone breast implants do not cause any major diseases. ''Some women with breast implants are indeed very ill and the I.O.M. committee is very sympathetic to their distress,'' the group wrote in a report to be made public on Tuesday. ''However, it can find no evidence that these women are ill because of their implants.'' The report, more than 400 pages long, says the ''primary safety issue'' with implants is their tendency to rupture or deflate and to lead to infections or hardening or scarring of the breast tissue. There is little argument about these localized problems, which can be painful and disfiguring and which often lead women to have additional surgery. But the report asserts in forceful terms that there is no reason to believe that the implants cause rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, or any other systemic disease. Women who say their implants have caused them to suffer these or related problems have turned breast implants into a leading source of liability litigation.
With health costs spiraling again, employers are taking a closer look at their workers' waistlines, tackling a complicated and sensitive issue that affects not just medical costs but morale and productivity. While companies typically tread softly to avoid giving offense or violating discrimination laws, many are trying harder to promote exercise and nutrition regimens to reduce the health risks of being overweight. With the population getting older and more sedentary by the day, excess weight is a growing national issue for everyone from children to the elderly. Companies have tackled this issue before, but their efforts have gained urgency as revamped statistics have shown a sharp rise in both the number of overweight Americans and the enormous costs often associated with excess weight. Few employers have devised new tactics to attack the problem, but more of them are joining the crusade. In the late 1970's, 46 percent of adults were overweight, according to guidelines introduced last year, but by 1991, that had soared to 54 percent -- 97 million, by the latest estimate. Adults classified as acutely overweight, or obese, went from 15 percent to 23 percent in the same period.
The state's investigation derives from complaints from various sources, although Dr. Arbit blames Dr. Ho's office for his troubles. About a dozen other current and former hospital doctors, most of whom would speak only on the condition of anonymity, said Dr. Ho complained about them relentlessly to hospital administrators, engaged in petty antics like refusing them equipment from his operating room, and  made life unpleasant in the department. ''Victor Ho is very abusive in the O.R.,'' said Dr. Barbara Minkowitz, a pediatric orthopedist who once assisted in procedures with Dr. Ho's former partners and works in an operating room next to his. Another surgeon who left the hospital said, ''I didn't think my career would be helped working with him.'' Dr. Ho refused to be interviewed. His lawyer, Robert Asher, would not say whether he had instigated the latest investigation of Dr. Arbit. ''Dr. Ho will categorically deny that he has ever done anything except for the betterment of patients,'' Mr. Asher said. ''People at the hospital don't like him because he is a perfectionist. And that can be seen by the fact that the department went downhill after he was replaced.''
Even less is known about the nutritional supplements that are advertised as mimicking the effects of drugs like testosterone. In fact, only now is a study being conducted to see if any of these supplements increase muscle size. It is a study of guinea pigs. Dr. Steven B. Heymsfield of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in New York, who is conducting the study, explained that male guinea pigs have a huge jaw muscle, but that the muscle shrinks if they are castrated. If the castrated animals are given testosterone, their jaw muscle grows back. Dr. Heymsfield's experiment is to give castrated male guinea pigs various supplements that are said to be as powerful as testosterone and see what happens to the jaw muscle. He will be testing a tiny fraction of the supplements on the market. ''There are thousands of them,'' Dr. Heymsfield said. ''They make these extraordinary claims, and they probably are right. But the actual scientific literature is extraordinarily thin. You find, like, five papers, and they are not well done.''
One of my most vivid childhood memories is a diet -- not for me but for my father. Year after year he would take it up, poring over a few sheets of typed instructions given to him by a family doctor, the ancient and rail thin Dr. M. D. Levin of Baltimore. Dr. Levin's diet was supposed to cure ulcers and prevent migraines, to give you energy and robust health. But, most important, to make you lose weight. It was a high-protein, low-carbohydrate diet, not so different from the diets sweeping the country today. You load up on meats and cut all the good stuff, like pasta and bread and dessert. Dr. Levin's diet was not the way my father wanted to eat. But, he insisted, it took the weight off. Of course, it always came back, but that was because my father could not live like Dr. Levin and Dr. Levin's equally skinny wife, forever on the diet.
More than 100,000 veterans have reported experiencing symptoms associated with gulf war syndrome, including chronic fatigue, muscle pain, memory loss and sleep disorders. But because of the Pentagon's acknowledged shoddy record keeping in the war, it may be impossible to know how many of those took the drug and in what quantities. After years in which the Pentagon has systematically discounted possible explanations for the ailments, including stress, exposure to oil-well fires and depleted uranium used in American bombs, the report is something of a breakthrough. Wary of the reaction of veterans' groups and their supporters in Congress, Pentagon officials today played down the findings of the survey, which was conducted over two years by the Rand Corporation, a nonprofit research organization financed by the Defense Department. ''This is not a Eureka,'' said Dr. Sue Bailey, a physician who is the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs. Dr. Bailey and other officials said they accepted the report's findings but added that more studies were needed before a direct scientific link could be established. They also said the Pentagon would continue to keep the drug in its arsenal of vaccinations and antidotes for troops who might face attacks with chemical and biological weapons, even though the survey's conclusions also raise questions about its effectiveness against soman.
Ms. Reel may be right, and her experience may be more common than was once thought. A study looking at 12 experienced gastroenterologists published last week in The New England Journal of Medicine found that the ability to detect abnormal growths in the colon could vary widely from doctor to doctor. But the central factor distinguishing the most accurate and the least was thoroughness. Simply put, the doctors who spent more time examining the colon during the critical withdrawal phrase of the colonoscopy were better at detection than those who worked more quickly. ''Doctors who took longer found more polyps, but it's important to recognize that time is not the key,'' said Dr. David A. Johnson, a professor of medicine and the chief of gastroenterology at Eastern Virginia Medical School in Norfolk and president of the American College of Gastrenterology, who was not involved in the journal study. ''What a longer exam really translates into is a careful, thorough, quality examination.''
Profitable as they are, the online courses were never intended to displace the off-line courses as much as they were ''meant to expand the reach of our business,'' Mr. Deutsch said. In particular, online courses are targeted to students who are too busy to schedule classroom sessions, those who cannot afford the traditional courses, those who cannot stomach the idea of sitting in a classroom in nonschool hours, and students who live too far from the company's traditional classroom centers. To help prove the effectiveness of online study, Princeton Review will release a study of its Internet courses this fall. ''We see similar score improvement in our Internet and classroom courses, which average 140 points combined in the math and verbal,'' Mr. Deutsch said. ''We expect the study to show numbers very close to that, if not higher.'' That study ''will certainly help, in that we can put it in marketing material,'' he said, ''but I don't know if it'll give us a significant increase in business.''
Mr. Wachter said he prefers Robert Wood Johnson to Sloan-Kettering for several reasons, many of them having to do with convenience and friendly, highly organized doctors and nurses. He also said he has great confidence in the medical decisions of the Robert Wood Johnson doctors. But he admitted that after prostate cancer was discovered by his New Jersey doctors several years ago, he quickly returned to his oncologist at Sloan-Kettering for primary treatment. ''It's strictly based on reputation -- what can I say?'' Mr. Wachter said, adding, ''Right now I don't have anything major, so I'm using Robert Wood Johnson.''
Scheetz, 27, is a talker -- a naturally outgoing, effervescent sort. That very aspect of her personality and how it might shape the mood of an anxious person is something she thinks about a lot. That's because, right now, she is working on a study of an anti-anxiety drug for which placebo response is a real problem. ''The company has tested it already,'' she explains as we sit chatting one morning at the Clinical Insights offices, a standard-issue medical suite in a beige-and-smoked-glass office building above a busy commuter highway. ''They just haven't been able to pull out the actual drug effect, but they're sure it works. This is sort of their last chance to show it.'' The company sponsors have given Scheetz particularly detailed instructions: they want her to record the amount of time she and the principal investigator, a psychiatrist named Lawrence Adler, spend with each patient. They know that the weekly sessions during which she and Adler check up on the patients, listening to their complaints and so on, can themselves be therapeutic -- and therefore confound the data on the drug's effectiveness. ''I tend to be a very friendly person,'' says Scheetz, who has a tumble of brown curls and a broad smile. ''And I've had to monitor myself, to hold back a bit. I try to be as
''If you excluded all the people who have any financial connections to industry, you'd exclude all the people who are most expert,'' he said. ''The recommendations passed muster as they went through layers and layers of review.'' Some doctors and researchers also questioned the effect the new recommendations might have on patients. Publicity about the benefits of lowering cholesterol through statin treatment, they worry, may lead people to think that even those at low risk for heart disease should take the drugs, despite the fact that clinical trials have not yet demonstrated any benefits for such people. In addition, some researchers fear that the findings could lead doctors and patients to ignore the fundamental importance of lifestyle factors, like diet and exercise, to cardiovascular health. ''A lot of people think, 'Hey, I'm on statins, I'm protected, I'll have the Big Mac or the foie gras or the crme brle,''' said Dr. Eric Topol, chairman of the cardiovascular department at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio. ''And most doctors give up on lifestyle changes because it takes an investment of time from both patient and physician. It's easier to write a prescription for a statin.''
And what about life as a survivor? Should you consider yourself cured or living with a chronic disease? What is the psychological impact of having had cancer, having what may be permanent disabilities from the disease or its treatment, and trying to go back to a life or a career that has been disrupted? ''What's new is the recognition and growing attention to the fact that people are living long term,'' said Dr. Julia H. Rowland, director of the Office of Cancer Survivorship at the National Cancer Institute. Researchers are starting to ask what life is like after a cancer diagnosis. ''What is the health cost, the societal implication?'' Dr. Rowland said. ''Is it different from someone with heart disease or diabetes? How much different is it to have cancer?'' In part, there are more survivors because treatment for some cancers is better. In part, it is because the population is older, and cancer is largely a disease of the elderly. And, in part, it is because there is more testing for cancer. While screening tests can find cancers at a stage when they are more amenable to treatment, it can also find cancers that would never have been noticed in the person's lifetime.
Yet the truth is, none of this may matter quite as much as it seems because in some ways medical abortion is already a reality. Once the F.D.A. issues final approval of mifepristone, and regardless of the protocol stipulated on the label, doctors may make use of the drug more or less as they like. Misoprostol, which is already approved for ulcer therapy, can also be used alone as an abortifacient, though it is more effective in combination with other drugs. Abortions induced by misoprostol in conjunction with a drug called methotrexate, which has been approved since 1954 as a treatment for cancer and other diseases but not as an abortifacient, are already available at no fewer than 75 facilities across the country. (The main strike against methotrexate is that it takes longer and is less predictable than mifepristone; a woman who takes it could miscarry as much as two weeks later.)
The vast prestige, power and --  critics would argue -- arrogance of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center can be measured by its physical space. It is on York Avenue in the 60's -- inconvenient, like many prestigious New York hospitals, to public transportation. Many of its hospital floors feel grim and dated, with harsh lighting and nurses' stations enclosed in Plexiglass. Its parking lot is dismal, and some waiting areas are about as welcoming as the average public hospital's. Yet historically, Sloan-Kettering has been the place to go for cancer treatment in New York, because of its prestigious doctors and esteemed reputation for clinical research, and the promising drugs trials it conducts. Ambience has never been the point. But lately, curious things have been happening at Sloan-Kettering. It is building a new ambulatory care center at 53d Street and Third Avenue, smack next to several subway lines. The main hospital is undergoing a face lift: peach-toned walls,  with still-life paintings, are replacing blinding white ones, sand-colored carpeting is being added to match,  and nurses' stations are now open and accessible. In recent years, it has also opened a modern, attractive center for breast cancer patients on East 64th Street, complete with comfortable furniture and a shop that sells hats, scarves and other accessories.
The drop in breast cancer followed immediately. ''Those are the facts,'' said Dr. Peter Ravdin, an oncologist and Dr. Berry's colleague. ''We think there is a likely connection between them.'' Even so, Dr. Ravdin said, hormone therapy does not cause most of breast cancer in the United States. Some cancers do not need estrogen to grow. Others that depend on estrogen grow whether or not a woman is taking Prempro or a similar drug; they are fueled by the estrogen in a woman's body. Dr. Ravdin added that he thought the current guidelines, advising women to use hormone therapy for as short a time as possible for the relief of menopause symptoms, were appropriate. Dr. Joseph Camardo, senior vice president for global medical affairs for Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, urged caution in interpreting the data. Just because one event follows another does not mean one event caused the other, he pointed out.
''This book is the most important palimpsest in the world,'' Mr. Noel said. ''We're learning about the nuts and bolts of ancient medieval history and gaining a new understanding of the early history of the calculus and of our understanding of ancient physics. The prayer book is made up of five other books. Another of these books seems to be an early Christian -- second or third century -- commentary on ancient views of the soul and why they were incorrect.'' Correction:  November 28, 2006, Tuesday  An article in The Arts yesterday about the discovery of a text by the ancient Greek orator and politician Hyperides misstated in some copies the century in which he lived. It was the fourth century B.C., not the fourth century. The article also misstated the surname of a classics professor at the University of Texas, Austin, who commented on the discovery. He is Michael Gagarin, not Gargan.
That technique is now the backbone of all modern electronic commerce. However, for many kinds of simple communication like e-mail, cryptography systems have proved too daunting to most users and as a result are largely not utilized. Similarly, advanced communication tools like Internet telephony and two-way video could be far more secure, were it not for the challenges current encryption systems pose for unsophisticated users. The Voltage system is intended to cut through that complexity. ''Now you have something really easy to use that can be used from your desktop and laptop wherever you are in the world,'' said Sathvik Krishnamurthy, the president and chief executive of Voltage. Voltage now has two pilot programs, one with Silicon Valley Bank, based in Santa Clara, Calif., the other with eHealthInsurance, an online medical insurance company based in Sunnyvale, Calif. ''We chose to pilot Voltage because its identity based encryption technology is straightforward to use and does not disrupt our existing e-mail infrastructure,'' said Bruce Telkamp, vice president and general counsel of eHealthInsurance.
Uranium 238 clearly was leaching into the soldiers' kidneys, he said. ''They had very high levels of uranium salts in their urine,'' Dr. Phelps said. ''But there is no evidence of kidney disease.'' Depleted uranium has long been used to strengthen weapons because it is extremely dense, 65 percent denser than lead. A weapon made with depleted uranium can penetrate even steel-armored tanks. It also ignites when it hits. ''When you fire into or through steel, it actually vaporizes the steel,'' said Dr. Bruce Kelman, a toxicologist who is a president of GlobalTox, a business in Seattle that studies industrial hygiene and toxicology for governments and industry. ''You get a mist of depleted uranium and steel.'' Dr. von Hippel said that although the metal was radioactive, ''its half-life is 4.5 billion years, which is, by coincidence, the age of the solar system.'' That means that it would take 4.5 billion years for half the uranium 238 atoms in a chunk of the metal to decay by emitting radioactive particles.
Active people know the feeling all too well: a stiff and achy sensation in the muscles that sneaks up on the body 24 hours or more after, say, a hard run, a challenging weight lifting session or the first day back on the ski slopes. Sports scientists call it delayed onset of muscle soreness. Athletes call it a nuisance because even simple movements like walking down stairs can be an ordeal. If the soreness is severe enough, it can hamper the next workout or even ruin a ski vacation. Because of the delay, some people may not even realize that the aches and pains were caused by an activity -- gardening, for example, or hammering nails -- engaged in days before. ''I've had patients call me up who think they have a virus,'' said Dr. Gary Wadler, a professor at the New York University School of Medicine and a specialist in sports medicine.
Dr. Meg Durbin  Internist and pediatrician, Palo Alto (Calif.) Medical Foundation We've known for a long time that there's no data to suggest that self breast-exam helps people live longer. But it's heresy to say that out loud. I said it at a conference of women, and I nearly got thrown out of the room. Having said that, there are also studies showing that 50 percent of women find their own breast cancers. So it's a great dilemma. I don't discourage it, but I don't know that I encourage it as much as I should. Part of it is the exhaustion that comes with going over this with every single woman. If I knew for sure that breast self-exam was known to decrease morbidity and mortality, I would probably more enthusiastically recommend it. The data supports the idea of women over 50 having mammograms every one or two years. For women in their 40's, we say, let's talk about it. If she doesn't object, I would err on the side of doing annual mammograms.
''Here was a one-time competitive power-lifter who looked to me like a concentration camp refugee,'' said his wife, Kathy, who almost divorced him because of it. In those first two years, Mr. Sherman's libido disappeared, he was cranky, cold and flatulent all the time, and people suspected he had cancer or AIDS. ''Michael's skin hung off his body like you see on old men,'' she said. Paradoxically, old age was exactly what Mr. Sherman was shooting for. After reading that drastic calorie restriction slows the aging process in laboratory animals, he vowed to starve himself to stretch out his golden years into the 22nd century. If mice, geese and guppies could extend their life span 40 to 50 percent by eating 40 percent less than they wanted, why couldn't he? ''I'm definitely not one of these guys who says, 'Ooo, 18 more years and I can retire,' '' said Mr. Sherman, 46, who runs a biotech company in California near his Silicon Valley home. Now that he's acclimated to the diet and is somewhat bulked up from weight lifting, he looks more like a cyclist than a ''Survivor'' finalist. ''I feel very much like I did at 20,'' he said. ''Nothing but blue sky ahead of me.'' Mr. Sherman is part of a curious subculture of scientists, philosophers, futurists and assorted high-minded anorectics who believe that saying no to dessert (and sometimes to breakfast, lunch and dinner, too) will be the ticket to superlongevity.
''In our research,'' Dr. Blair said, ''people who are obese but fit, according to cardiovascular measurement, actually have death rates half of normal weight people who are unfit.'' In other words, what the new recommendations should have made clear, or at least clearer, is that exercise may not accomplish as much as some people would like it to in terms of helping them lose weight, but that there are all sorts of reasons to be active, including the prevention of heart disease, depression and even some forms of cancer. ''We have 40 million to 50 million adults who are essentially not active at all,'' Dr. Blair said. ''If all of them took those 30-minute walks every day, there would be enormous health benefits.'' The additional point is that moderate exercise of just 30 minutes a day might in fact help you lose weight, depending on who you are. ''What I tell people is, 'Meet the 30-minute guideline,''' said Russell Pate, a professor of exercise science in the Arnold School of Public Health at the University of South Carolina. '''And if you're one of the people still gaining weight, then you'll have to ratchet it up a little more.' But I'll tell you this, if all adult Americans met the 30-minute guideline, we'd have a lot less obesity in this country.''
Screening for breast cancer also fit well with the optimistic message of anticancer organizations. In the face of a terrifying disease, there was something that women could do. Educational messages reinforced the idea that early detection had to work. One poster told women that if they didn't examine their breasts, they should have their heads examined. Publicity about mammography routinely called it a lifesaver. Advocates of mammography designed sophisticated randomized trials to try to prove its value. In a study conducted in the 60's and 70's, the Health Insurance Plan of New York found that women 50 to 64 undergoing intensive screening had a 30 percent lower rate of dying from breast cancer than those receiving care more typical for that era. Trials in Europe corroborated these findings. Yet some critics noted that women still seemed to die of supposedly early cancers they had found during breast self-examination. Others suggested that mammography, particularly for women in their 40's, helped cure few cancers but led to many unnecessary biopsies of lesions that were not cancerous. Supporters of early detection at times denounced these critics as fatalists for questioning something so seemingly logical as early detection.
Her optimism seems well founded. Not only are mifepristone abortions, by nature, more discreet than their surgical equivalents (like vacuum aspiration), but the practitioners who prescribe them will almost certainly constitute a larger and a more varied group than the dwindling corps of OB-GYNs willing to do surgical abortions. In 1998, for example, when the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation polled family practitioners about their interest in using mifepristone once it was approved and available, 45 percent of doctors responding said they were ''very'' or ''somewhat'' likely to do so. Fifty-four percent of nurse-practitioners and physician assistants expressed interest in offering the drug. Yet only 3 percent of the physicians in the study and 2 percent of the practitioners and assistants had performed surgical abortions. Similarly, in a 1996 survey of doctors who belong to the Society for Adolescent Medicine, 42 percent said they would prescribe legal medical abortion, though only 2 percent currently offered the surgical option. The potential for expanding the number of abortion providers in rural areas is perhaps even more dramatic. One 1995 study, for example, found that while less than 4 percent of all OB-GYNs, family practitioners and general surgeons practicing in rural Idaho performed abortions, 26 percent said they would definitely be interested in prescribing RU-486, and another 35 percent were uncertain.
The withdrawal of Vioxx from the market, he said, ''may be an opportunity for people who are on horribly expensive medications that they didn't need to be on to get onto something cheaper, which will help their pocketbooks as well as their arthritis.'' One drawback of the over-the-counter medications is that, unlike Vioxx, which patients typically took once a day, drugs like ibuprofen must be taken three times a day. ''Three times a day is a lot more than three times more difficult than once a day for many people,'' Dr. Montauk said. Some experts have recommended that patients on Vioxx stop taking it abruptly. But Dr. Montaux cautions against changing drugs before talking to a doctor, even if it takes a few weeks to get an appointment, because the risk of Vioxx is not serious enough to warrant panic. ''I do think it's important for people to not stop abruptly,'' Dr. Montauk said. ''An abrupt increase in pain could also put a strain on the cardiovascular system.''
EVERY morning for nearly a year, Evelyn Castro had to roll out of bed, literally. She would grip the side of the mattress and gingerly ease herself out in a crouch position to avoid sharpening the dull ache in her lower back. Then she would make her way, wincing, downstairs to brush her teeth, stooping so low in front of the sink that she could not see her face in the mirror. Ms. Castro, 34, a financial analyst in the Encino section of Los Angeles, had the kind of unexplained back pain that afflicts at least 70 percent of Americans at some point in their lives. But she was an active person -- a marathon runner and a cyclist -- and despite her pain she wanted to continue training. Her doctor advised her to take it easy, so she decided to try short, slow runs. But the first time she laced up her running shoes, she found her pain was compounded by anxiety. ''My whole back stiffened,'' she said, ''and I remember thinking: 'What am I doing to myself? This isn't worth it.' I was afraid that it would worsen with activity.'' She put the running shoes away.
But even though babies in areas with more neonatologists and more neonatal intensive care beds were more likely to spend time in the care of those specialists and to be admitted to those hospital units, their mortality rates were no better than those in any but the lowest 20 percent in terms of supply. From the second to the fifth quintile, there was a fourfold increase in the numbers of newborn intensive care beds and newborn intensive care specialists, Dr. Fisher said. The more beds available, he said, the more likely it was that babies of low to moderate risk spent time in one of these hospital units, he said. ''But we didn't see any benefit,'' he added. Commenting in an editorial that accompanied the researchers' article in the journal, Dr. Kevin Grumbach of the University of California at San Francisco wrote: ''The saga of neonatology is emblematic of how a market-driven health care system with inadequate public planning produces too much of a good thing.''
MORTALITY rates, however, were basically identical for all nine regions -- and actually slightly higher in the Seattle-Puget Sound area. Dr. Brawley cites similar findings from a recent study comparing the United States with Britain. ''I believe prostate cancer screening probably does save some lives,'' Dr. Brawley said, ''but I can prove through studies like these that it ruins some lives.'' A recent study of men living near the Mayo Clinic has added more fire to the debate. The Journal of Urology this month published a report by researchers who analyzed prostate cancer deaths in Olmsted County, Minn., from 1980 to 1997. They found that the prostate cancer death rate declined by 22 percent after intensive P.S.A. screening in the county was introduced in 1987. Dr. William Catalona, a professor of urology at Washington University in St. Louis and a leading advocate of P.S.A. testing, called the results ''striking.'' He added: ''I'm confident that with widespread use of P.S.A. testing and effective treatments, we'll see a significant fall in the prostate cancer death rate within the first decade of the next century.''
Progestin alone prevents hot flashes in about 70 percent of women, Dr. Norton said, as do antidepressants like Effexor, Paxil and Prozac. Women using antidepressants to treat hot flashes typically take half the dose that is used for depression. But these drugs, too, have side effects, and the effects of long-term use are unknown. Vaginal dryness can be treated with estrogens that are placed in the vagina but not easily absorbed by the body. Estrace, a cream, and Vagifem, a solid suppository, can be used two or three times a week. Estring, a plastic ring similar to a diaphragm, releases estrogen gradually over the course of three months. Women with osteoporosis can be given raloxifene (brand name Evista), a so-called designer estrogen, which has been shown to decrease the incidence of breast cancer. Or, they can take bisphosphonates (Actonel or Fosamax), which help maintain bone strength. Health food and vitamin stores sell a variety of menopausal remedies, though they are backed by even less scientific data than prescription drugs are, and the existing evidence suggests they may not work. Evening primrose oil, flaxseed oil, dong quai root and vitamin E have never been shown to be more effective than placebos in reducing menopausal symptoms. Some small studies have suggested black cohosh may help quell hot flashes, Dr. Grady said, but several others have not.
But the test's actual success in catching early cancers is more modest than was claimed by Mr. Palmer, who was treated last year for a recurrence of the disease. Dr. Timothy Wilt, an associate professor of medicine at the Minneapolis Veterans Affairs Medical Center, said that screening leads to treatment that fails in a significant portion of men. ''In about 30 to 40 percent of men who undergo what is thought to be successful curative surgery,'' he said, ''there is evidence soon afterward that the tumor has recurred or was never completely removed in the first place. ''I think it's important for people to realize that once we find their prostate cancer, we still have no evidence that treatment works,'' Dr. Wilt said. ''And that's really the whole crux of the screening issue: If treatment doesn't work, why are we using the P.S.A. to look for tumors?'' To underscore their argument, critics of the P.S.A. point to studies showing that prostate cancer screening has little effect on the mortality rates. In a 1997 study in the journal Cancer, Dr. Otis Brawley, a medical oncologist and epidemiologist at the National Cancer Institute, calculated new prostate cancer cases per 100,000 men and prostate cancer deaths per 100,000 men in nine regions of the United States from 1974 through 1994. Not surprisingly, regions screened most intensely for prostate cancer (the Seattle-Puget Sound area, for example) had a much higher incidence of the cancer than regions screening the least (Connecticut, for one).
Congress gives the money with less strings attached to it than an agency which puts more strings on it. Private money is almost invariably less rigid. There is also a great need today for clinical research support. We need to supply the fiscal support for the doctors who are doing the clinical side of the experiment. That's rapidly disappearing. They are a special breed of investigative oncologists. They are the ones who think experimentally and still provide the highest quality of care. We are planning a fund to endow clinical investigators. Many of them are forced to leave the academic environment and go into private practice because there is not enough financial support for them.
She said that no one can say for sure why the disparity exists but there are some possible explanations. Nassau and Suffolk Counties are relatively affluent and women there, over all, have more mammograms than women in the rest of the state. In other affluent areas, breast cancer rates are even higher, Dr. Gammon said, citing as an example Bergen County, N.J., where the breast cancer rate is 121.4 per 100,000. She said the entire northeast corridor has relatively high rates, compared to the rest of the country. Dr. Gammon said less affluent women are more likely to have children early and to have many children, factors that decrease breast cancer risk. They also are less likely to have mammograms. Dr. Eric Feuer, a statistician at the National Cancer Institute said that mammography finds some cancers that, left alone, would never have caused symptoms. ''When mammography rates go up, incidence goes up,'' he said.
And the relationship of estrogen and progesterone to breast cancer is not straightforward. High doses of estrogen and progestin have been used to treat metastatic breast cancer with success. At the same time, current treatments, which reduce estrogen levels, are equally beneficial. How does this work? I wish I knew. The one thing we know for sure is that it's time to get the elephant out of the middle of the room. Until these recent studies overturned the theory, we have blamed all the diseases of aging, from Alzheimer's to incontinence, on ''estrogen deficiency.'' The fact that hormone therapy has not been shown to prevent these problems but in many cases (for example, dementia, incontinence and stroke) to increase them means this theory was wrong. Now we must study the real causes for these problems and develop appropriate treatments. We need to know that our therapies are both effective and safe over the long term. With testosterone patches for women with low libido on the horizon, we should be asking how much we really know about their long-term safety.
Dr. Kaminetsky counters with his own story. Had he not found this way of practicing medicine, he said, he would no longer be seeing patients at all: he would be in a desk job with a pharmaceutical company. A detail-oriented perfectionist who routinely works through lunch and still does his own filing, he was tormented in his previous practice by the impossibility of meeting his own standards. ''I hated it,'' Dr. Kaminetsky said. ''It was awful. Patients always had a litany of complaints. Driving home, I would think, 'Oh my God, I never saw this test, I never called that patient back.' Some people are not as easily distressed by loose ends. I don't like leaving things undone.'' Now on his busiest days he sees perhaps half the number of patients he used to, spends twice as long with each one and has the time to make every last phone call.
Twenty-five years ago this month, Louise Brown became famous just by being born -- the first human conceived outside the body. Doctors removed a single egg from her mother's ovary, combined it with her father's sperm in a laboratory dish and, two and a half days later, placed the resulting eight-cell embryo into her mother's womb. By today's standards, Louise Brown's conception seems rather conventional. Consider, by comparison, Lily and Max Karlin of Florham Park, N.J., who were conceived by in vitro fertilization, or I.V.F., two years ago. Fertility drugs prompted their mother, Jamie Karlin, to grow, in a single cycle, 20 eggs large enough for her doctors to harvest. After being fertilized, 12 of them grew in culture for five full days to reach the embroyonic blastocyst stage -- still microscopic, but ready to hatch from its outer membrane with more than 100 cells. Dr. Alan Copperman, director of reproductive endocrinology at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York, transferred the two most promising blastocysts into Ms. Karlin's uterus. The remaining 10 were frozen, to await the time when Ms. Karlin and her husband, Jason, might want more children. Max and Lily were born in May 2002.
For many women, the choice to quit or continue hormone therapy will not be easy. Some said yesterday that increased risk of breast cancer, heart disease and blood clots found in the study did not seem great enough to warrant going off hormones. ''I've read the reports,'' said Rosemary Herpel, 59, of Shaker Heights, Ohio. ''We're talking about 8 more people in 10,000 who got breast cancer. I just think that's not significant enough to make me stop. I'm very concerned with bone loss. I have friends who haven't taken hormones, and they are experiencing bone loss.'' Janice Kennedy, 56, a third-grade teacher in Lima, Ohio, said: ''I'm really not buying what they're selling. I know their studies have documented numbers, but for me, hormone replacement has been beneficial.'' Ms. Kennedy sees her doctor once a year and has regular mammograms and pap tests. Because she is on a low-dose estrogen patch, and progestin in pill form, and there is no breast cancer in her family, she feels safe.
Some studies have suggested that increasing the dosage of cholesterol-lowering drugs provides added benefits, but the researchers in this study found no relationship. Similarly, this study, which involved people using six kinds of statins and three nonstatins, found no evidence that any one drug was more effective than another against dementia. The scientists note that their study's participants had an average age of 75 and that their statin use was assessed for a median of five years. It may be that statin use has to begin earlier in life or go on much longer to show an effect in preventing dementia. Yet when the scientists analyzed their data to consider the varying lengths of time their subjects had taken the drugs, they could still detect no preventive effect. The authors acknowledge that their work has certain limitations. The main reason people in this study were prescribed statins was their risk for heart disease, and some studies have suggested that heart disease itself is a risk for dementia. Yet even when only patients without heart disease were considered, the scientists still could find no significant reduction in risk.
Other right-to-life activists cite the case of Nadine Walkowiak, a 31-year-old French woman, mother of 12 and a heavy smoker who died in 1991 of cardiovascular shock after getting mifepristone and a prostaglandin shot. (What they don't say is that of the approximately 500,000 women in Europe who have used a mifepristone-prostaglandin regimen, this is the only fatality. Nor do they say that the protocol has changed since then: the particular prostaglandin Walkowiak took is no longer used; misprostol is now given instead and in oral form; in France, any woman with a history of heart problems or hypertension comes under tighter scrutiny for RU-486, and so on.) In its list of ''key facts'' that ought to form the ''core message'' for the movement, the Life Issues Institute cites first the proposition that RU-486 ''will injure, and possibly kill'' women and next to last that it ''will kill an unborn baby whose heart has started to beat.''
By comparison, the typical real food has more trouble competing under the rules of nutritionism, if only because something like a banana or an avocado can't easily change its nutritional stripes (though rest assured the genetic engineers are hard at work on the problem). So far, at least, you can't put oat bran in a banana. So depending on the reigning nutritional orthodoxy, the avocado might be either a high-fat food to be avoided (Old Think) or a food high in monounsaturated fat to be embraced (New Think). The fate of each whole food rises and falls with every change in the nutritional weather, while the processed foods are simply reformulated. That's why when the Atkins mania hit the food industry, bread and pasta were given a quick redesign (dialing back the carbs; boosting the protein), while the poor unreconstructed potatoes and carrots were left out in the cold. Of course it's also a lot easier to slap a health claim on a box of sugary cereal than on a potato or carrot, with the perverse result that the most healthful foods in the supermarket sit there quietly in the produce section, silent as stroke victims, while a few aisles over, the Cocoa Puffs and Lucky Charms are screaming about their newfound whole-grain goodness.
NNP , WP VBZ IN NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBZ IN PRP VBZ JJ NN IN NNS , DT NN IN NNS VBG IN NN . CC IN PRP VBD DT NN NN , CC PRP VBD PRP NNP POS JJ , PRP MD VB PRP$ NN IN PRP MD RB VB JJ IN DT NNP FW NNP . DT VBZ DT NN IN DT NN WP , IN PRP VBD RB DT NN NN , MD VB NNS IN JJ NN . CC TO VB DT JJ NN . WRB DT CD NN NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN . DT NN . '' IN IN NNP , PRP VBZ TO DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN , WDT VBZ TO VB PRP . UH , PRP VBP VBG PRP , IN PRP MD VB JJ , '' PRP VBD , PRP$ NN VBG IN DT JJ , RB JJ NN PRP RB VBZ WRB PRP VBZ IN PRP$ NN . PDT DT NNS VBP RB VBN JJ TO VB PRP VBZ IN PRP MD VB DT NN WRB DT NN VBZ TO VB RB JJ . NNP , WDT VBZ JJ , CC WRB JJ VBZ RB JJ . MD NN VB PRP IN . WRB JJ VBZ RB JJ . '' 
CD NNS IN DT JJ NN , CC PRP RB VB PRP DT , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP DT NN . EX VBZ NN PRP MD VB TO IN IN PRP$ NN . '' NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN CC NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD , NN MD VB EX VBZ DT NN . '' NN NNS VBP JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD . JJ NNS IN DT JJ NNS , '' PRP VBD , EX VBZ DT JJ NN . RB PRP VBP IN CD NN WRB PRP VBP RB VB RB WP VBZ VBN PRP . IN EX VBP DT RB JJ NNS IN RB DT VBP RB JJ . '' CD NN VBG WRB DT NNS RB VBP VBZ IN DT NN NN RB VBZ TO VB CC VB DT NN , CC RB NNS NNS TO VB PRP . DT NN VBZ VBN NNS TO VB CD NNS VBD TO TO VB JJ JJ NN . CD VBZ JJ JJ NN , DT NN NN VBD IN NNS IN NNS CC VBN TO VB JJ NNS IN DT NN NN . DT JJ VBZ JJ JJ NN , WDT VBZ NN IN DT NN POS NN TO VB PRP$ JJ NN TO VB DT NN . 
JJ NNS VBP RB RB JJ IN DT IN NNS . IN DT NN VBN IN DT NNP NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP NNP VBD IN VBN IN NNS WP VBP JJ CC DT NN , DT IN JJ NNS , WDT VBP NN , VBD JJR NN IN NN , VBG IN NN VBZ VB DT JJ NN . CC IN DT JJ NN IN NNS CC NNS IN NNP , NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN IN WDT NNS VBD JJR NN , DT NN IN NN , CD NNS IN VBG , IN NNS CC NNS VBD JJ NN VBG RB IN NN . CD NN VBD DT JJ IN NNS CC NNS , CC DT NN POS NN VBD JJR IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN DT JJ NN , RBR JJ NNS VBN IN NNP NNP VBD DT NNS IN NNS CC NNS IN DT NN IN NN IN VBN NN NNS . DT NN NN IN NN , IN PRP VBZ RP , VBZ IN NNS MD VB JJ TO VB JJR NN NNS IN NNS . NNS MD VB JJR NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , WDT MD VB PRP TO VB JJR , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
RB JJ NN VBZ RB IN DT JJ NN RB : PRP VBZ TO DT JJ NN VBN , IN NN , CC RB RBR RB VBN IN DT NN . CC IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NN NNS PRP DT JJ NN IN NN , IN JJ NNS ( CC RB DT RB VBN TO PRP ) DT NN '' IN DT NN VBZ DT NN NN CC VBZ TO NNP NNP VBZ . IN CD NN NN VBD PRP TO PRP , PRP VBP IN DT NN IN NNP JJ NN IN VBG NN . '' TO VB PDT DT NN IN DT JJ NN , IN WRB NNS VBP TO DT RBR JJ JJ NN TO NNP , CC WRB JJ NN VBZ TO PRP$ NNS , VBZ DT NN TO DT NN . NN NNS VBP PRP VBZ JJ NN , '' CC PRP MD VB RB . IN NNP TO NNP . IN EX VBZ CD NN WDT VBZ RB PDT DT NNS NN VBZ VBN TO DT NN NN , PRP MD VB NN . NNP NNS VBP DT NN IN DT NN , WDT IN NN VBZ TO VB DT NN IN DT NN NN IN DT NN . IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS IN DT CD , DT JJ NN IN NN IN NNP VBZ , VBG TO NNP . NNS , VBD RB . DT NNS VBP DT NN IN DT NN IN DT NN : NNS VBP DT NN IN JJ NN NN TO VB IN JJ NNS IN NN RB IN JJ NN . IN PRP VBZ , DT NN IN NN IN PRP$ NN VBZ IN IN DT NN . VBG NNS VBZ PRP IN JJ NNS , DT JJ IN WDT VBP RB VBN RP IN IN NN '' : JJ NN IN JJ NN , NNS CC NNS IN NN NN . CC NN NNS MD VB RB RB DT NNS NN NNS VBP IN JJ . WP VBP PRP VBG . 
DT NN VBD IN DT NNS VBD IN NNS WP VBD JJ NNS IN NNP , DT NNP JJ NN , VBD RBR NN NN IN NNS . VB VBD VB DT JJ NN IN NNP , IN NNS WP VBD DT JJS NN IN NNP NN IN CD NNS IN NN VBN TO CD NNS IN DT JJS NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP NNP NNPS . NNP NNP VBD , '' MD VB VBG WRB MD PRP VB JJ NNS IN IN NN NN . '' IN NNS VBP IN DT NN , NNS VBP IN JJ CC JJ NNS MD VB PRP$ NN . IN NN , NNS MD RB VB VBN NN VBN IN PRP$ NNS IN PRP VBP JJ CC JJ . PRP MD RB VB JJ CC NN IN VBN NNS , IN DT NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP , IN DT NN RB VBP NNP POS . NNS CC NNS IN JJ JJ NN , NN , NN NN , JJ NNS , NN CC JJ NNS MD VB VBN , DT NNS VBP . 
PRP MD VB WRB NN NN VBZ RB VBN JJR IN DT NN IN NNS IN IN NNS : RB IN JJR NNS IN NNS IN IN PRP DT NN , NNP NNP VBD . NNS IN DT JJ NNS VBP VBN DT NN IN DT NN CC NN NNS CC VBP RB VBN RB IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC DT MD VB NNS , NNS , NNS CC NN NNS TO VB RBR RB IN WRB JJ NN RB VBZ DT NN CC DT NN , '' PRP VBD . VBN IN DT NNS CC NN NNS VBP VBN IN NN NNS IN DT NNS , PRP VBZ RB RB JJ WRB NN VBP JJ RB IN NNS IN NNS . DT NN MD VB NN TO VB IN DT NN IN DT NN NNS WDT VBP TO DT NN , WDT VBP RB JJR IN DT WDT VBP TO DT NN , NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP VBD NNS IN NN NN IN NNS WP VBP RB VBN DT NN NN CC NN MD VB VBN IN NN IN DT JJ NNS . CC VBP TO VB IN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS MD VB VBN IN IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . 
DT NN IN DT NN VBZ RB RB VBN CC JJS NNS VBP RB RB VB TO VB IN DT NN . PRP VBP RB RB VB TO VB WP PRP VBP VBZ JJ TO VB TO DT NN . CC DT NN IN JJ NN MD VB IN NNS VBP , IN NN , DT NN IN PRP$ NN . PRP MD VB NNS VBG PRP VBP VBG TO VB NNS WRB RB PRP MD RB . NNP . NNP POS NN IN DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN WP DT NN VBZ IN DT NN POS NN . CC VB POS VB IN DT NN VBZ JJ . MD DT NN RB VB PRP RP . VBP RB DT NNS VBP TO VBG TO VB . NNP PRP VBP RB JJ TO DT NNS CC NNS IN NN . NNS IN DT NN VBP PRP IN DT JJ NN . DT NNS VBP PRP TO VB RB , TO VB JJ CC TO VB JJ . PRP MD RB VB DT CD . CC DT VBZ TO DT NN IN NN . 
DT VBG NN IN NN VBZ IN NN CC JJ NNS WDT VBP DT JJ NN MD VB IN JJ NNS IN RB , NNP NNP VBD , IN PRP RBS JJ CC JJS JJ NN VBZ NN NN . '' 
IN VBG JJ NN CC VBG JJ NN NNS , NNS IN NNP NNP VBP VBN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN : VBG JJ NN NNS IN NNS WP VBP JJ CC VBN . NNP JJ JJ NNS TO VB DT NN IN DT NN NN , JJ NNS IN NNS CC NNS TO VB RP NNP POS NN . CC JJ JJ NNS VBP IN DT NN CC DT JJ NN , NNS VBD . RB , JJ NNS VBP VBN JJ NN NNS TO DT NNS : VBG DT JJ IN DT NNP NNPS WP VBP IN JJ NN : CC NN IN NN VBZ VBN JJ NNS VBG TO VB JJ NNS . DT JJ JJ NN VBZ DT NN IN WP VBZ VBN JJ NN . '' DT NN RB RB VBZ CD IN NN IN VBG CC PRP VBZ RB JJ RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN IN NN CC NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP . 
DT . PRP VBZ RB RB VBN . JJS RB , PRP MD VB PRP IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . CC , IN NN , IN JJ NNS , DT NN VBZ RB IN RB IN WDT NNS VBP JJ CC WRB . CC RB WRB NNS VBP VBN VBN , NNS VBP RB VB PDT DT NNS , CC DT VBZ VBN DT IN VBG . JJS NNS VBP RB VB NNS RB RB . DT NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBP RB VBN RP IN RB CD NNS , CC DT NN IN NNS CC NNS VBD PRP$ NN IN DT . PRP VBP VBN NNS VBP IN NN MD RB VB IN EX VBP JJ NNS IN NNS WP VBP TO VB NNS TO VB NN . NNP . WRB VBP DT NN NNS VBD TO DT NN IN NNS . DT . RB , PRP VBP RB VBN RP IN PRP . DT JJ JJ NNS VBP DT JJ NN NN . PRP VBP PRP$ NN IN NN NNS IN VBP NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS . PRP VBP RB VB PRP$ NNS TO VB , WDT VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNS . 
MD VBZ TO DT NN IN NN IN NN VBZ RB DT JJ NN IN VBG CC VBZ JJ TO JJ JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . CC VBZ TO NN IN PRP VBZ DT JJ NN . '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN CC NN IN NNP CC DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBD DT NNS VBN RB IN JJ CC JJ NNS IN DT NN IN NNP , NNP . NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN JJR IN CD NNP NNS , VBD VBN NNS IN NN NNS VBD DT NN IN NN NN , CD NN IN NN . DT NNS , NNP NNP CC NNS VBD , VBP TO VB VBN IN DT NN IN VBG NN , VBG IN NN , IN DT JJ NN IN NN NN . NNP RB VB NN , VBG DT NN , VBZ RBR JJ . DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBZ NNP VBP RB VB . '' 
NNP VBZ NN , NNP NNP VBD , CC POS NN IN DT NN VBZ TO VB IN NN NN NN . '' DT NNPS CC NNS VBP IN DT NN VBN IN NNP NNP MD VB IN NNP VBD NNS CC NN NNS . NNP NNP VBD IN CD IN DT CD NN NNS IN DT NN VBD VBG JJ NN NN NN CC IN PRP VBD NNS TO VB DT NN . NN NNS CC NNP NNP NNS VBD TO NNP NNP POS NN . NN IN DT NN MD VB RBR JJ JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNP NNP POS NN . NNPS , WP VBP NNP NNP VBZ PRP$ NN IN JJ NN , VBD IN PRP VBD VBG PRP$ NN TO VB PRP IN JJ NNS . EX VBZ NN IN DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN MD VB IN DT VBZ JJ IN DT NN . '' 
NNP NNP NNP POS JJ NN VBD VBG IN NN : PRP VBD VBN NNP CC RB PRP VBD VBG . VBG PRP , NNP NNP VBD PRP$ JJ NNS VBD TO DT NN IN DT JJR IN CD NNS : CC DT RBR JJ NN , IN WDT PRP MD RB VB , CC DT RBR JJ NN , IN WDT PRP MD RB VB IN NN . CC EX VBD RB DT NN NN IN DT NN MD VB PRP$ NN . PRP RB VBD IN WRB PRP VBD PRP NNS MD VB PRP$ NN , DT NN WDT MD VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN NN . IN NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBD TO DT NN IN DT RB NN RBR DT NN , PRP$ NNS VBN IN NN : DT NN . PRP VBD NN . PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBZ RB CD , '' PRP VBD RBR DT NN . CC PRP VBD RB JJ . RB PRP VBD VBG JJ NN TO PRP$ . RB PRP RB MD VB VBD , PRP VBZ VBN PRP IN DT NN . '' PRP MD VB NN PRP JJ . '' 
CC VBZ RB DT NN IN DT NN TO VB RP DT NN DT NN CC VB TO PRP$ NN , TO VB PRP$ JJS DT NN CC VB IN PRP$ NNS , NNS CC NN . DT JJ NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN NN WP VBZ VBN NN IN DT NNS . JJ NNS VBP DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN POS JJ NN , TO VB IN DT NN , CC IN JJ NNS , NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP VBP , NNS MD VB JJR IN IN NNS VBD PRP$ NN VBG PRP IN JJ NNS IN VBG NN , VBG DT JJ NN CC NN RB , VBG NN NNS CC VBG VBG NN NNS IN PRP$ NNS . IN PRP VBP VBG NN VBG NNS WDT VBP RB RB VB NNS CC VBG NNS WDT MD VB IN NN , WDT VBZ DT NN RB RB IN NN CC IN JJ NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP CC NN IN DT NN NN RB . 
DT JJ JJ NN MD VB VB IN NN NN MD VB , VBG DT NN TO VB NNS VB IN PRP VBP NNS , NNS RB VBD IN NNP . DT NN , NNS IN WDT VBD VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD RB RB JJ , DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN VBN . CC PRP VBZ DT NN IN VBN NN , '' IN WDT JJ NNS MD VB VBN TO VB NNS VBN IN DT NN . JJ NNS WP$ JJ NN VBZ VBN IN NN NN JJ NN CC NN IN TO RB JJ NN , WDT MD VB JJ NNS . NNP VBZ IN RB CD NN IN JJ NNS , CC JJ VBP VB NN . CC VBP VB RB JJ NN IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , WP VBD NN IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN . CC DT NN PRP VBP PRP VBZ IN PRP MD RB VB RP DT NNS WP VBP PRP . '' 
NNP NNP POS NN IN DT NNS VBP IN IN NNP NNP NNP , WP VBD DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP CD NNS RB IN DT NN VBD TO NN NN CC RB IN NNS . NNP NNP , RB , VBD RB VBN RP . DT CD NNS , RB NN NNS , VBP IN VBN JJ NNS . DT VBP RB VBN IN NN CC NN , IN JJ NNS CC DT NN IN DT JJ NN . NNP NNP , IN PRP$ NN , VBZ RB VBN IN DT NNP NN CC JJ NN . PRP VBZ IN DT NNP NNP CC NNP , VBZ DT NN POS NN IN NNS IN JJ NN , CC VBZ VBN TO NNP NNP , WP VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NN IN NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP NNP VBD VBN IN CD IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN VBN RP IN NNP NNP TO VB NNS . NNP NNP RB VBD IN DT MD VB DT NN TO VBG NNS . PRP$ NN VBD JJ WRB , IN CD , NNP NNP , RB NNP , VBD $ CD CD IN NN TO NNP NNP POS JJ NN . 
CD VBD IN DT NN CD NNS RB , WRB EX VBD RB DT VBG NN WDT JJ NNS CC NN CC DT NN IN NN VBD DT JJ NNS IN WRB RB JJ NNS VBD JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . '' CC CD NNS RB , DT JJ NNS VBD RP VBG IN NNS VBZ RB , RB JJ , CC IN DT NN RBS NNS VBP IN PRP MD VB CD CC CD NNS IN PRP VBD IN VBG DT NN TO DT JJ NN . '' IN DT NN IN NN IN CD , NNP NNP VBD , '' VBD VBN . '' IN NN VBD WRB NNS VBD IN NN VBD RB JJ NNS VB NN CC VB JJ . DT JJ NN , DT NN VBD VBN IN NNS . IN JJ JJ NNS VBD IN NN MD VB RP TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN : VB DT NN TO VB NNS CC PRP MD VB JJ . CC PRP VBD RP IN JJ NNS VBP NN IN NN . 
CC RB DT JJ NN IN DT NN POS NNS VBZ PRP VB WRB NN MD VB JJ DT NN RB , VB RB NN DT NN NNP IN NNP TO VB PRP , IN JJ NN NNS DT NN RB VBD IN CC VBD . RB DT NN NN IN NN MD RB VB JJ NNS : DT NN VBD IN PRP , '' RB IN IN DT JJ NN , IN NN CC NN . NNP NNS MD VB RB IN VBG TO JJ JJ NNS . RB , DT NNS VBD VBN IN NNS IN NN : NNS VBG PRP$ JJ NN IN NN IN JJ NN CC NN VBD VBN RB IN NN VBG PRP$ NN IN JJ NN CC JJ NNS CC NN . WRB . IN WRB DT NN VBD VBN CD NNS RB , DT JJ NN IN NN NNS '' VBD RB RB IN DT JJ NN . NNS VBD WP NNS MD VB . CC RB DT JJS NN IN DT NN , CC JJ NNS IN PRP , VBZ IN PRP VBP DT NN WP DT NNS VBD RB JJ IN , IN JJS NNS WRB VBN IN PRP$ NNS , PRP VBD IN PRP . WRB VBP PRP VB DT . NN . VB : WRB DT NN VBD , DT JJ NN VBD IN IN CD NNS CC VBD TO VB VBG CD NNS DT NN . PRP MD VB DT JJ NN TO VB IN NN IN RB JJ NN . CC PRP MD VB DT RB JJR NN TO VB RB CD CC CD NNS IN VBG RB TO DT NN IN CD TO CD NNS DT NN : IN DT NNS IN DT JJ '' NNS VBD TO VB VBN . NNP , NNS , CC PRP RB VBP RB VB PRP . 
DT NN MD VB VBN DT NN IN PRP$ NN DT NN , PRP VBD , CC DT NN VBD VBN IN IN DT JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD DT NN TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN , IN NNP . NNP NNP VBD DT NN POS NN '' TO VB DT JJ NNS IN DT NN NN NN . IN DT , PRP VBD , PRP VBD IN DT NN WP RB VBD DT NN IN CD NN MD RB VB NN WDT MD VB PRP IN DT NN VBN VBD IN DT JJ NN . NNP NNP VBD IN JJ NN NN MD VB VBN IN NN NN POS EX VBZ DT JJ NN TO VB IN DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN DT NNS IN DT NN CC VBP VBN IN VBG JJ NNS IN DT NN IN NNS IN DT JJ NN . '' DT NN POS JJ NN , IN CD , VBD IN VBG RB RB TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN MD VB VBN . '' 
IN NNS RB VBN IN JJ NN , WDT VBZ DT NN . NNS VBP VBN IN NN , NN CC NN . PRP VBP VBN IN PRP$ NNS IN NN CC IN NN CC NN . PRP MD VB JJ TO VB PRP RB TO NN , VBD NNP NNP , IN DT NNP IN NNP , IN JJ VBD PRP$ NNS IN NN CC VBD JJ NNS IN PRP$ JJ NNS CC IN NN NNS . RB , NNS VBP VBN VBN IN DT NN IN CD CC DT NNS , '' PRP VBD . CC NN VBZ JJ , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN VBN NNP , IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP . IN DT CD NN NNS WP VBD PRP$ JJ TO JJ NN CC VBD PRP , RB DT VBD TO VB CC RB NN VBD RB TO PRP$ JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD . CC NN IN PRP NN IN , '' NNP NNP VBD . WP VBP PRP VBG TO VB IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN . WP VBP PRP VBG IN VBG VBN . WP MD PRP VB IN PRP VBD RB VBN . '' 
DT NN IN DT NN IN CD NN VBZ VBN DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS CC NNS . NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NN NN IN NNP NNP , VBD NNP POS NN IN DT JJ NN MD VB DT JJ NN TO DT VBN NN IN NN VBZ DT JJ NN . CC VBZ PRP JJ NN CC NN TO VB VBG IN DT NN , IN PRP MD RB VB PDT DT JJ NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBD DT NN IN NNP JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP CC NNP . NNS VBP IN JJ NNS VBP JJ NNS TO NNS , CC IN DT NNS DT VBP VBN VBN TO NN . DT NNP , IN NN , VBZ VBD IN NNS IN JJ NN VBP RBR JJ IN NNS TO VB JJ NN NNS IN DT JJ NN NNP . CC NN VBZ IN DT JJ JJ NNS IN NNS VBP JJ . 
NNS VBP NN , '' PRP VBD . '' DT NN VBZ VBN . '' 
IN NN TO VB NN , DT JJ NN RB VBD IN DT NN IN JJ NN IN JJ NN : IN NN , VBG NN : IN JJ NNS , CC VBD IN DT NN IN NN VBD DT NN IN JJ CC JJ . PRP VBD IN DT NN IN NN IN DT NN RB , CC DT NN IN DT NN , VBD JJ . NNP NNP VBZ IN JJ VBP NNP POS IN NN NN IN DT NN NN , RB IN JJR , VBD NNS IN NN . RB RB IN DT JJ NNP POS VBP VBG VBN IN DT NN , PRP VBZ , DT NN VBZ IN DT VBG NN . CC NN POS NN VBD IN NNP POS IN DT NNS IN JJ NN , VBD NN , NNS , NN NNS CC NNS , IN VBG , RB RB VBP DT NNS WDT VBP JJ TO DT NNS . 
NNP VBZ DT . PRP VBZ IN NNS IN JJ NNS VBP RBR JJ IN JJ NNS TO VB VBN , DT IN PRP JJ . CC PRP VBZ JJ NN IN RB JJ . IN NN TO DT NN CC NN NNS , PRP VBZ NN VBG IN VBG NNS TO VB JJ IN NN , CC VBG PRP JJR NNS , VBZ DT NN IN PRP$ NNS . DT NNS VBD IN DT NN VBD RB JJ : DT NNS POS NNS VBD TO VB IN NN RB RB IN IN NN . CC NNP NNS IN DT JJ NN , '' WDT VBZ CD TO VB DT NN CC RB TO VB DT NN IN DT NN . '' VBZ DT NN IN NN , RB , VBZ PRP RB JJ TO VB PDT DT NN IN PRP$ NNS : CC VB DT JJ NN NN . CC IN PRP VBZ JJ TO VB RP IN JJ NNS VBP RB VB JJR NNS IN NN , NN CC NN NNS , WDT VBZ RB VB DT NNS VBP RB DT NN IN VBG NN IN DT WP VBP RB JJ TO PRP . IN DT IN DT NN IN NNP POS JJ NNS NNS , PRP VBP RB RB IN PRP$ NNS VBP PRP TO CC IN PRP$ NNS VBP , IN NN IN DT NN CC NN IN NN CC NN . 
DT NN IN , PRP VBD VB PRP$ CD JJ NNS IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT NNS IN NN IN DT JJ NN NN . '' RB , IN PRP$ JJ NN IN JJ NN , PRP VBD VBN IN DT JJ JJ NNS WDT VBD PRP NN IN DT NN CC DT NN IN NN . IN DT NN , DT NN VBD NN WDT VBD VBN IN PRP$ NN : NN IN WP PRP VBP PRP RB VBZ JJ : RB , PRP VBP RB VB WDT NN . IN DT NN PRP VBD JJ TO VB . IN DT NNS , IN DT NN NN , IN DT NN NN , PRP VBP IN PRP VBP VBG VBN DT NNS IN WRB DT NN VBZ VBN RB , WRB PRP VBZ , WRB PRP VBZ , WRB PRP VBZ . PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN CC NN . IN NN , PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN . CC RB , IN DT NN NN CC NN IN NNS , PRP VBP IN NN POS NN RB . NNP VBZ , CC RB VBZ VBN , DT VBG NN . CC DT RB VBZ IN WP PRP VBP IN NN VBZ RB VBG : DT NN VBZ RB VBG NN , CC RB JJ , NNS ( IN MD VB VBN IN DT VBG NN ) . DT VBZ RB JJ IN DT NN . NNP DT IN PRP$ JJ JJ NNS VBP VBG VBN , VBN CC VBN IN NNS IN DT NN . RB IN DT NN EX MD VB JJ NNS VBN CC NNS VBD , CC JJ NN RB RB NNS IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS TO VB NN IN JJ NN . NNP , RB DT NN CC JJ NN , VBZ IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN . 
NNP . NNP VBD PRP VBD DT JJ IN DT NNP NNPS TO VB DT NN , VBG IN CD IN DT JJ NN , WP VBZ RB JJ IN , IN NN , PRP RB RB VBZ NNP POS NN . NNP . NNP VBD TO VB PRP TO VBG NNS IN PRP VBD VBG DT WP VBD NN IN DT JJ NN CC WP$ NNS VBD VBN IN IN DT NN . PRP VBD PRP VBD DT JJ NNS NN IN PRP VBD IN JJ NNS CC NNS IN JJ NNS . PRP VBZ VBN JJ NN NNS TO CD NNS , PRP VBD , IN DT RBS JJ NN JJ NNP . NNP . NNP VBD PRP$ NN VBD RB VBG RBR JJ NN CC VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN , VBG TO VB DT JJ NN NNS . CC , PRP VBD PRP MD VB DT NN TO VB VBG DT NN RB . NNS VBP IN PRP MD RB VB CC MD RB VB JJ NN IN DT NN VBZ JJ NN , PRP VBP MD VB DT JJ NN , '' NNP . NNP VBD . 
DT NN VBZ IN DT NN WRB DT NNS VBP VBN VBG DT NN IN VBG NNS IN JJ NNS , VBG NN CC JJ NNS IN NNS , NN NN IN NNS , CC NN NN IN DT NNS . DT JJ NN VBZ IN DT NNS VBP VBG DT NN IN NNS WDT MD RB VB JJ CC MD RB VB VBN IN NNS WDT MD VB RB , RB VBG JJ NNS TO VB DT NN IN NN , NN CC NN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN VBZ NNS WP VBP IN JJ NN VBZ RB RBR JJ IN NN , CC NNS WP VBP RB RB JJ . DT NN VBZ DT NN IN VBG VBG NNS TO JJ NNS TO VB IN PRP VBP VB NN NN . JJ NNS VBP VBN VBN RB IN NN . CC RB JJ NNS MD RB VB DT NNS . NNP VBZ VBN VBN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN CD JJ JJ NNS , CC NNS VBP IN IN NNS IN DT NNS VBP DT NNS CC RB JJ PRP . 
CC NNP . NNP VBD IN RB DT JJ JJ NN MD VB JJ NNS . NN VBZ JJ CC NN IN DT NN IN NN , '' PRP VBD . JJR IN VBG IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBP TO VB IN DT JJ NN IN NN . '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NN CC NN IN JJ NN IN NNP , VBZ DT JJ NN NNS TO VB DT JJR NN VBG DT NN IN DT NNS IN JJ NNS . CC NN VBZ RBR JJ IN JJ NNS VBP , '' PRP VBD . VBG JJ NNS POS VBZ RB IN JJ . JJS IN DT JJ NNS PRP VBP RB IN DT NN WDT CD JJR JJ JJ NN MD VB DT JJ NN RB CC IN DT . PRP VBP RB RB JJ PRP MD . '' VBZ DT JJS NN CD MD VB IN DT NN IN VBG NN NNS VBZ DT NN IN VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NN . NNS VBN IN DT NNS MD RB VB VBN CC VBN IN NNS WP MD VB NNS VBN IN JJ NNS . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NN : NN VBZ JJ , CC DT JJS NN IN VBG JJ NN VBZ NN IN NN , VBG NN . '' 
NNP NN NN NNS RB IN DT NN , DT NN IN JJ NN VBZ VBG DT NN NN NN , RB IN JJR NNS VBP VBG TO VB PRP$ NNS RB VBN . WRB DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBD JJ NNP TO RB VB DT NN IN NN IN NN NN , PRP VBD RB VBN IN NNS VBP NNS TO VB NNS PRP MD VB JJ NNP . POS TO VB IN NNS CC MD VB DT NNS IN DT NN VBZ VBN . CC DT NNS VBP VBG DT NNS , VBG PRP VBP JJ CC JJ CC IN PRP VBP IN PRP$ NN TO VB NN CC NN TO DT NN . DT VBD PRP MD RB VB DT NNP . POS , IN NNS VBD PRP MD VB DT NNS , IN RB . CD NN IN JJ NNS , RB CD NN IN NNS , MD VB EX VBP NNS IN DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP . VBZ VBG DT NN IN JJ NN CC NN . '' 
DT JJ NNS CC NNS VBP VBG IN CD NN , VBG TO DT NN IN DT NN NN NN RB IN NNS IN PRP VBP MD VB PRP$ NNS . DT NNS VBP NNP NNS IN DT NN : JJ , RB JJ NNS WDT MD VB JJ NNS , JJ NNS IN NN NNS WDT VBP PRP VB RP IN NNS , CC VBD NNS WDT MD VB JJ IN NN NN . NN NNS IN JJ NNS VBD RB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ , NN IN DT JJ JJ NN IN NNS . CC IN DT NN IN NNS IN NNP NNP CC DT NN IN NNS , JJ NNS CC NNS TO VB PRP , DT NNS VBP JJ TO DT NNS . IN DT NN IN NN , NNS VBP VBG , IN $ CD CC JJR TO DT JJ CD NNS . NNP NNS VBP VBG RP IN NNS CC NN NNS IN DT NN . PRP VBP IN NNS , VBG DT NNP NNP NNP , IN DT NN , IN NNS CC IN NNS VBN IN NN . 
NNP NNP VBD NNP VBD TO VB DT NNS JJ TO NNS IN DT NN , WDT PRP VBD DT NN IN NNS RB . RB PRP VBD VBG DT JJ NN TO VB DT JJ NN IN NNS . CC VBN JJ NN , PRP VBD , DT NN VBD TO VB DT NNS RB IN DT JJ NN . NNP NNP VBD EX VBD DT NN TO VB DT NNS IN NNP WRB NNP VBD VBN IN NNP VBD IN JJS NNS VBG RP NNP MD VB TO NNP . CC DT NN VBZ RB VBG IN DT JJ NN IN NNP NNS VBP VBG TO NNP , WDT VBD NNS IN $ CD CD IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN , IN PRP VBD DT NNS NN TO VB NNS CC NNS VBP , PRP VBD . IN NN NN , NNP POS NNS VBD CD NNS , VBG IN $ CD . NN VBD RB CD NNS , TO $ CD . NNP NNP VBD DT NNP NNS IN JJ NNS VBD RB JJ IN DT NN IN DT JJR NN . CD NN VBZ RB JJ IN PRP MD CC MD RB VB JJ , '' PRP VBD . 
DT VBG NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN CD IN DT NNP NNPS NNP IN NNP IN DT NNP NNP . IN DT CD NNS IN DT NN , CD VBP NNS IN JJ NN . DT NN VBD RB IN NNS VBD DT JJ NNP NN TO VB IN NNS DT JJ NNS IN NN IN NN IN NN , NN CC JJ NNS VBN IN NNS IN NNS IN NN , NNP . CC NN . DT NN RB RB VBD RP DT NN IN NNS MD VB VBN IN JJ NN NNS . CD , IN VBG DT NN , '' DT NN VBD , '' JJ VBZ IN DT NN TO VB PRP IN DT NNS IN VBG NN , IN DT NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN TO VB DT JJ NN , RB DT NN MD VB JJ IN VBG CC VBG DT NN IN JJ NN . '' DT NN VBD IN DT NN IN NNP NNS CC NNS IN DT JJ NN VBD VBN JJ NN IN NNS WP VBD JJ NN . DT NN VBD DT NNS IN CD , IN NNS VBD VBN NNP CD , DT NN WDT VBD DT NN IN NNS TO VB NN IN JJ NNS . 
NNS VBP VB NNS WDT VBP RB JJ IN PRP , WP VBP IN PRP VBP DT JJ NNS CC WRB RB NN PRP IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . CC DT NNS VBP RB DT NN , PRP VBD . IN PRP$ NN , RB CD NNS IN DT JJ CD NNS VBD JJ IN VBG , RB DT CC DT JJ VBP RB VBN JJ NNS CC JJ CC JJ NN . EX VBZ VBN DT JJ NN RB IN IN NN , CC RB CD NNS IN NNS VBP RB JJ TO VB VBN . NNP , DT NNS VBP TO NNS WP VBD CC DT JJ NN CC VB TO VB PRP , NN WDT VBZ TO VB NNS RBR JJ TO VBG PRP$ NN . JJ NNS VBP RB VBN IN DT NN WDT VBZ IN RB VBG DT CD NN JJ NN TO DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC NN VBD TO PRP . '' 
PRP VBP RB IN NN NN VBZ DT RB JJ NN WDT RB VBZ RB IN DT NN WRB DT NN NN VBZ JJ . NNS VBD IN JJ MD RB , IN NN , VB JJ . DT NN IN DT NN , RB RB DT NN WRB PRP VBZ VBN , VBZ VB DT NN POS NN . WP VBZ RB VBG IN DT JJ NN IN NN VBZ DT NN IN NNS TO VB IN WP DT NN NN . IN DT NN IN NNS IN NNS IN CD VBZ VBN JJ IN NNS , DT JJ NN NNS PRP$ NN RB IN CD . DT NNS IN DT NNP VBD VBN TO CD NNS , IN NNP CC IN NNP , NNP , WDT VBP IN DT RBS JJ IN NN . EX VBP NNS IN JJ NNS , CC NN MD VB . WP MD NNS CC PRP$ NNS VBP IN PRP VBP RBR JJ NNS . RB VBZ PRP$ JJ NN . IN NNS IN CD : DT IN WP NNS IN NN POS NN VBP JJS : PRP MD VB TO VB JJ NN , VBG DT NN IN NNS CC VBG PRP VB IN TO VB NN . IN NNS CD TO CD , PRP MD VB TO VB RB NN . EX VBZ RB VBN RB JJ JJ NNS IN RB JJ TO VB DT NN RB . CC PRP MD RB VB RBR JJ TO VB IN NNS IN PRP$ NNS WP VBP PRP . IN DT NN , PRP MD VB JJ TO VB PRP$ JJS JJ NNS IN WRB PRP VBD NN NN . 
POS CD , PRP VBZ DT JJ JJ TO VB VBG JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD RB . VB DT NN RB VBZ IN PRP , VBG TO VB IN NNS . '' DT NN IN VBG DT JJ NN VBZ RB JJ NN NN , IN NN , CC RB JJ NNS , JJ NNS CC NNS , RB RB IN VBG IN NN NNS , WP VBP RB DT JJ NNS IN WDT NN NNS MD VB VBN . IN NNP NNP VBD VBG VBN IN NN PRP VBD TO NN PDT DT NN . IN PRP VBD PRP NN , PRP$ NNP . NN RB VBD WP VBD TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ JJ . CC IN DT NN , DT NN , WDT VBD RP TO VB DT JJ NN , NN , VBG NN NNS IN PRP$ NNS . PRP RB VBD TO VB VBN IN DT NN , CC PRP$ NN NN VBD RB VB DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . IN NNP NNP VBD NNS VBG TO VB PRP$ NN TO DT JJ NN . RB DT NNS VBD , CC RB IN DT NN VBD TO VB PRP$ NN IN DT NNP . POS JJ NN , RB PRP$ JJ . 
NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN NNS CC NN CC JJ NNS IN NNP CC JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP NN , VBD DT NNS IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP NNS VBD JJ . CC NN IN DT NN IN NN CC DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNS VBZ JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD WRB IN DT NN MD PRP RB VB TO VB RP IN RB VBG NN IN DT NNS IN JJ NN MD VB JJ . '' IN DT JJ NN , NNS VBP DT JJ NN VBZ VBN VBN . NN VBZ RB IN DT NN IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NN . CD NN IN DT , WRB MD PRP VB DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS IN NN NNS . DT NNS VBP DT NN PRP VBP RB VB TO VB RP IN , DT NN WP . '' NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN CC JJ NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD . 
IN DT JJ NN , DT JJS NN IN VBG DT NNS VBZ IN VBG PRP$ NN IN NN . NNS IN JJ NN MD RB VB NNS TO VB IN NNS WDT VBP RB RB CC DT WDT MD VB JJ . JJ NNS MD VB VB WP NNS MD VB WRB PRP VBP JJ NNS IN VBG NNS . RB , JJ NNS MD VB RB JJ IN PRP MD RB VB WRB DT NN VBZ VBN : PRP MD DT VB JJ . CC IN DT NN , NNS CC PRP$ NNS MD VB TO VB DT NN WDT VBZ JJ TO PRP . DT MD VB NN CC JJ IN DT NN IN IN DT NN VBD RB JJ NN . NNS MD VB DT NN CC NN VBG IN DT JJ NN RB , WRB PRP$ NN VBZ JJ . DT NN VBZ DT NN TO WP VBZ RB DT NN IN JJ NN . PRP VBZ VBG IN DT NN IN DT JJ JJ IN NN NNS PRP$ NN POS NNS CC VBZ DT JJ NN RB , IN DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN VBZ VBN RB RB DT CD NNS IN PRP$ NNS . PRP$ JJ NNS MD VB NNS , CC PRP VBZ DT NNS WP MD VB TO VB IN DT NNS IN PRP$ NNS . 
IN DT NN NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NNS , VBD RB IN NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBD VBN IN PRP$ NN , CC VBD PRP CC PRP$ NNS IN DT NN IN NN . CD IN DT JJS NNS PRP MD VB , '' PRP VBD , '' DT JJ NNS PRP VBP . '' 
TO NNP POS NN , PRP VBD . CC VBD IN NN NN . '' NNP VBD PRP , RB VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN . CC DT NN , PRP MD RB VB RP NNS IN DT NN . '' NNP VBD , NNP VBD DT NN IN DT NN IN PRP MD VB RB IN DT CD NN : NN RB TO VB . JJ TO VB RB IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN NN , PRP VBD NN IN PRP$ NN . TO VB PRP$ JJ NN , WDT VBD DT JJ JJ NN , NNP VBD VBN TO VB IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN , DT JJ NN IN VBD NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS CC WDT , IN PRP VBD DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN CC PRP$ NN , VBD PRP$ NN TO VB . VBG VBZ DT NN , '' PRP VBZ . '' VBP CD NN CC PRP VBP DT JJ NN . DT NN IN PRP . '' PRP VBD IN JJ NNS , VBG DT JJ , JJ NN TO VB WP DT JJ NN MD VB IN DT RB VBN JJ NN . NNP VBD VBN IN PRP$ NN RB RB IN PRP$ JJ NN CC RB IN VBG POS JJ NN . IN DT NN , JJ NNS VBP CC VBP RB IN CD DT , VBG RB IN NNS CC JJ NN NNS . NNP , IN JJS NNP NNS , NNS IN CD NNS , DT JJ NN IN WP VBP VBN IN NNS TO VB IN DT NN . IN NNS , WRB NNP POS NNS VBD PRP$ NN , PRP VBD PRP RB IN DT NN TO VB PRP IN PRP$ JJ NN . '' VBP RB RB RB JJ IN PRP VBP PRP VBP , '' NNP VBZ RB . 
NNP NNP , DT NN RBS JJ IN VBG DT CD NN NN , VBD VBG DT JJ NN . PRP$ NN VBD JJ CC PRP$ NNS JJ , CC PRP VBD RB VBN DT NN PRP VBD IN NN . PRP VBD RP DT NN CC VBN RB . EX VBZ RB DT NN NN IN NN IN PRP VBP RB VB TO VB TO VB , '' PRP VBD PRP . '' PRP VBD JJ IN CD , PRP MD VB JJ . '' NN VBZ DT NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP , NNP . PRP$ NN VBD , IN DT JJ CD POS , IN DT NN IN VBG DT NN IN VBG JJ NNS IN JJ NN IN VBN NN . IN NNP NNP VBD IN PRP$ NN NN , '' NNP VBD IN CD TO VB IN DT CD NN IN NNS IN JJ NN IN DT NNP . POS NN NN , WDT VBZ IN CD CD JJ NNS VBG RB TO DT NNP NNP . PRP$ NNS VBD RB RBR JJ IN NN NNP VBD IN PRP$ NN , CC PRP$ NN VBD RBR JJ . NNP VBD IN NN NNS VBP RB JJ TO VB JJ IN DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBD RB TO VB DT NN IN DT NN POS JJ NN , RB RB TO VB WP VBD PRP RB JJ . CC IN DT NN CC DT NN , PRP , RB , VBD . RB , WRB NNP VBD IN DT NN IN VBG RP , PRP VBD IN DT NN POS NN DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN POS NN , IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN . 
NNS PRP VBD VBN RB , IN DT NN , IN DT JJ JJ NN , WRB DT NNP NN CC NN NNP NNP VBD WP VBD TO VB VBN DT NNS '' : NN , JJ CC NNS . PRP VBD VBN IN DT VBD RB JJ DT EX VBD VBG IN IN NN , IN NNS VBD IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ CD VBD RB RB VB NNS JJ . IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , JJ NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNS VBD VBG IN DT NN VBN NN , WDT VBD RB VB TO VB NNP CC JJ NNS . DT NN VBD VBN WRB NN VBD RP IN DT JJ NN VBD , '' CC JJ , NN , IN DT NNS VBP NN WDT VBD RB VBN RB VBN . DT JJ NNS RB , NNP NNP , DT JJ NN , VBD DT JJ NN '' IN NN NNS WDT VBD IN NN CC VBD PRP DT NN , '' DT JJ NN . NNS VBD DT NN IN NN TO DT NN IN NN , CC IN JJ NNS IN DT NN VBD TO VB IN PRP$ JJ NNS , PRP RB VBD RB IN JJ IN DT JJ NN IN NNS VBD TO VB NN RB IN DT JJ NN IN WP PRP VBZ TO VB . 
POS NNS VBP DT RBS TO VB , '' PRP VBD . 
DT NN RB VBD JJ NNS VBN IN DT NN POS NNS IN CD VBG NNS . PRP VBP PRP$ NN IN NNP NNP NNP ( RB DT NNS IN NNP ) CC NNP NNP NNP IN NNP ( RB NNP NNP NNP NNP ) . 
VBG DT NN VBZ JJ RB , CC MD PRP RB VBP TO VB IN PRP$ NN POS NNS VBP RB IN TO VB . DT VBD NNP NNP POS JJ CD NNS RB IN DT NN TO PRP$ JJ NN . IN DT NN , PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN VBD JJ CC JJ IN DT NNS IN DT NN , WDT MD VB JJ NNS IN DT NN WDT MD VB TO NN . NNP , IN PRP VBD PRP VBD NN TO VB RB , PRP RB VBD PRP MD RB VB DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . DT NN VBD PRP$ IN NN TO VB PRP$ NNS . DT NN , WRB DT NN NN VBN , NNP NNP VBD DT NN . IN PRP$ JJ NN , PRP$ JJ NN JJ CC VBD DT JJ NN . CC JJ NN VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN DT JJ NN VBD PRP MD RB VB , '' VBD NNP NNP , CD , DT NN NN IN DT NNP JJ NNS NN . VBG DT JJ MD VB VBN JJ . PRP RB VBP DT NN VBD PRP DT JJ NN . '' 
JJ NN DT NN TO VB NNP POS JJ , JJ NN NN IN NN NNS CC NNS IN DT NN NN . VBG TO JJ NNS , NN NNS VBP , MD VB JJ NNS CC VB NN , VBG DT NNS CC NNS . CC WDT VBZ VBN VBG VBZ DT JJ NN NN WDT MD VB NNS , NNS CC NNS TO VB IN JJ NN NN . NN , DT NN IN CD NN CC NN NN NNS VBD DT NNP NN PRP$ NNS IN RB PDT DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN NN NN . DT NN POS NN VBG DT NNS WDT MD VB DT NN IN PDT DT NN VBD DT JJ NN IN JJ , JJ JJ NNS IN NN IN DT NN . DT NN IN DT NN IN DT NN POS NN , DT NN VBZ , MD VB JJ IN VBG VBN IN DT NN RB TO NNS , NNS , NNS , NNS CC NNS , IN DT NN IN VBN NN CC JJ NNS VBP TO VB VBN . 
NNS VBP RB TO NNS , IN DT VBG JJR NN IN NN NN IN NNS , NNP . NNP VBD . CC , PRP VBD , '' NN VBZ RB RB TO VB TO DT JJ NN IN NN , CC TO VB NN NNS CC NNS , CC PRP MD VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN . '' 
CD VBD RB WP TO VB IN PRP . PRP VBD , '' VBP PRP TO VB NNS WDT VBP JJ NN CC DT JJ . JJ , CC PRP VBD RB VB NN IN NNS . '' CC IN DT NNS VBD DT JJ . '' NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT CD POS . PRP VBD DT JJ CC NN IN JJ NNS : NNS IN PRP$ JJ NNS . DT JJ NN '' NN VBD JJ NNS VBP PRP VBD RB JJ TO VB DT JJ NN . IN CD VBG . DT JJ , CC DT NNS RB VBD NN IN NNS . PRP RB VBD IN DT JJ NN . IN DT JJ NN IN NNS VBD PRP$ NN IN NNS , VBG NNS VBD VBG . NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP , NNP , VBD : '' NN VBZ VBN . DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN VBD RB CD NNS . NN PRP VBZ CD NNS . DT NN RB RB VBZ CD NNS . PRP VBZ CD CC CD . NNS VBP IN JJ CC JJ NNS , IN CD NNS , RB RB JJ NN CC DT JJ NN . '' 
NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP , DT NNP NN WDT VBZ NN NNS , VBD , '' VBP JJ TO VB DT JJR , RBR JJ NN VBG WP JJ NNS VBP VBD , CC PRP VBP PRP VBZ VB NNS IN NN NNS WDT MD VB VBN IN DT NNS . '' PRP VBD IN IN DT NNS VBP VBN NN IN NN NNS , EX VBZ VBN DT NN WDT VBZ NNS VBP NN NN IN NNS . '' NNS VBD JJ TO VB RP , RB , IN NNP NNP POS NNS VBD RB VB TO PRP IN DT NNS VBD JJ . IN PRP PRP VBZ RB DT NN IN PRP MD RB VB JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP . NNS VBP RB VB IN NNS CC NNS . PRP VBP PRP$ NNS . '' PRP VBD IN IN JJ NNS VBP RB VBN IN DT NNS IN NN MD RB VB VBN TO VB NN , PRP MD VB NN TO VB RB . VB DT VBZ VBZ PRP VBP TO VB IN JJR NN TO VB PDT DT JJ NNS WDT MD VB VBG JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . 
CD NN IN NNP MD VB TO VB IN DT NN NN , CC DT MD VB TO VB VBN IN DT NN NN VBD IN DT NN IN DT NN NN , VBZ IN TO VB NNS TO NNS . IN DT CD NNS IN DT NNP NNP VBD VBG JJ NN TO VB NNS , DT NN VBZ IN RB VBN DT NNS IN NN CC NNS , VBN JJ NN WDT VBD NNS VBN TO PRP CC JJ NNS IN NNS IN NNS IN VBG PRP IN NNS VBG IN DT NN NNS VBD VBN NNS JJ . VB DT NN , DT NN IN NN VBD TO VB DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , VBP PRP VBP DT VBD JJ . '' CD NN IN JJ NNS NN , NNP NNP , DT JJ NNP NNP NN , VBD DT NN POS NN IN JJ IN PRP$ NNS VBD VBN JJ . CC NN IN DT NNS IN DT NN VBN IN DT NN VBZ JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . WP VBZ WP VBZ DT DT JJ NN . '' 
NNP , WDT MD VB DT JJ NN IN CD NNS WRB VBN IN DT JJ NN , VBZ VBG VBN CC VBN IN DT NN NNP NNP NNP IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN . NNS CC NNS VBP IN DT NN , VBG TO NN NNS , NNS CC NNS . DT JJ NNS VBD VBG IN JJ NN , CC NN NNS IN DT NNP NNP , '' DT NN IN NNS WP VBP TO VB CC VB IN PRP$ NN NNS , VBP VBN NN IN DT JJ NN . PRP VBZ DT NN POS NN , CC IN CD NNS IN RB DT JJS NN NN IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP . NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP VBP PRP VBP TO VB DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNP IN DT NN NN VBN JJR IN VBG NN IN IN VBG NNS JJ , IN NNS IN NN NN CC NN NNS . 
IN NNP NNP , CD , DT NN POS JJ NN NN , WDT VBZ VBN NNS . DT NN RB , IN DT NN , CD IN NNP NNP POS NNS VBD IN PRP VBD VBG IN NN CC VBD DT NN IN PRP MD VB TO NNP , DT NN JJR IN DT NN RB . CC EX VBD DT NN , PRP MD RB VB , CC PRP VBD VBN IN PRP MD VB IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ RB VBN TO DT NN NN NN . RB , PRP VBD PRP NN TO VB RB CC VBD VBN TO VB DT JJ NN IN PRP VBD VBN DT NN IN JJ NN . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD JJ CC VBD RB IN NNS MD RB VB JJ NNS RB . VBG DT NN , NNP NNP VBZ NNS IN PRP$ NNS CC VBZ PRP IN DT NN IN NNP TO VB RP IN PRP$ NNS . IN DT NN , DT NN VBN TO DT NN POS NN VBZ DT NN POS NN CC VBZ DT NN IN DT JJ NN TO NNP NNP POS NN CC DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . 
JJ , DT NN NN VBD RB RB DT NN IN NNS VBN IN VBG IN DT NN IN DT NNS , IN PRP VBD JJ IN DT NN IN DT VBG NNS IN CD NN RB IN DT JJ VBD JJ TO NN RB . NNP , DT JJ JJ NN MD RB VB DT NNP NN POS NNS . DT JJ NN , IN PRP VBZ DT JJS RB VBN IN NN NN IN JJ NNS CC VBZ VBN DT NN IN DT NN , RB VBD VBD DT NN IN IN JJ JJ NNS MD VB IN JJ NN NN . JJS NNS RB VBP IN JJ JJ NN MD VB JJ NNS IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN NNS IN NN NN , IN NNS , JJ NN NN , JJ NN NNS , CC IN PRP VBP NNS . CC IN DT NN VBZ VBN NNS , CC DT NNS IN JJ NN : IN PRP VBZ DT JJ NN , IN NN , CC VBZ NN NNS : RB DT NNS IN VBG NN MD VB DT NNS . 
NN VBZ RB VBG IN DT NN TO VB NN '' IN NN NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN VBD IN NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ VBN NNS IN NNS IN NN CC NN NNS . NN NNS VBP IN DT JJ JJ NN MD VB JJ NNS RB VBG DT JJ JJ NN , DT NN NN NNP , WDT VBD $ CD CD JJ NN , RB RB IN NNP VBZ PRP MD VB IN JJ '' NN NNS . DT NNS VBP IN DT JJ NNS IN NN , NN , NNS CC NN WDT VBZ TO NN MD VB DT JJ NN . CD NN VBZ DT VBZ RB VB IN DT NN PRP MD VB VBG IN DT NN RB RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBZ DT JJ NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP . CC JJS IN DT JJS NN NNS VBP RB VBN TO VB IN DT NN . IN PRP VBZ JJR CC RBR JJ TO VB NNS , JJ NNS VBP JJ JJ JJ JJS NNS IN PRP$ NN NNS . 
IN DT NNP NNPS VBD IN NNP JJ NN , DT VBG NN NNS NNP NNP , NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD VBG JJR IN PRP$ NN IN DT VBG NNS . EX VBZ DT JJ NN . DT CD NNS VBP VBG VBN IN DT NNP CC NNP TO VB IN NN NNS CC NN TO NNS IN DT JJ NN NN NNS IN PRP VBP VBG IN PRP$ NN NNS . DT NNS VBP NN IN CD IN DT JJS CC RBS JJ NNS RB VBG VBN IN DT JJ NN : DT NN IN NNP POS NNP CC NNP POS NNP . IN JJ NN , NNP CC NNP , WDT VBZ VBN DT NN NN NNP TO VB VB PRP$ JJ NN , VBP DT VBN VBG NNS IN NNS IN NNS DT NN IN VBG PRP$ JJ NN NN NNS TO NNS CC NNS . DT NN VBZ VBG IN NN CC NN NNS , IN NNS TO NNS IN NNS TO VB IN NN IN DT NNS CC IN NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT NNS , VBN IN JJ NNS . DT NN RB VBZ JJR IN CD NNS VBG NNS TO VB DT NNS . 
NN POS JJ , IN PRP VBZ RB RB , TO VB NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . RB WRB JJ NNS VBD NN , PRP VBD RB RB JJ , PRP VBD . CC , PRP VBD , VBD DT NN VBZ RP IN CD NN NN CC VBZ RP IN CD NN NN , IN NN VBZ RB RBR RP . '' NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD NNS WRB TO VB NN NNS , WRB TO VB JJ NN NNS CC VB NN NNS IN IN DT NN CC WRB TO VB PRP$ NNS RB IN DT NN NN . CC JJ NNS WRB TO VB NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS , TO VB DT NN RB EX VBZ JJR NN TO NN CC NN NNS , '' PRP VBD . CC JJS NN IN PRP$ NN VBZ RB WP NN IN NN PRP MD VB IN CC WP NN IN NN NN PRP MD VB IN . PRP VBZ VBG . '' CC , IN RB , DT NN MD VB TO VB DT JJ CC JJ NN IN VBG NN IN NNS CC IN VBG PRP . JJ NNS VBP JJ CC , RB IN EX VBZ DT NN IN PRP VBP , PRP VBP JJ VBN IN IN NN NN . DT VBZ NNS CC NNS IN DT NN IN IN TO VB DT JJ NN CC VB DT NN RB . 
DT NN NN VBZ IN DT JJ IN NN , NNS CC JJ NNS VBP . IN CD NN , PRP VBZ VBN : PRP VBZ DT JJ JJ NN WDT VBZ NNS TO VB NN NNS TO DT JJ NN . CC IN DT JJ NN , PRP MD VB IN JJ CC JJ IN NN NN NN CC NN NN . IN JJS NNS VBP IN PRP$ JJ NN , IN NN , CC JJ NNS MD RB JJ NN CC VB WRB PRP VBP , NN NNS VBP IN IN PRP VBP TO VB , PRP VBP TO VB DT NN IN DT NNS CC VBG NNS . NN NNS RB VBP DT IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN NNS , IN NNS , NNS CC NNS IN VBG NNS , CC VBG NNS WP VBP RP RB IN DT VBG NNS POS NNS . TO VB NNS , JJ VBP JJ NN NNS , VBG NN NNS . CC JJ NNS VBP IN DT NN WRB VBD PRP VBP , DT NN WRB JJS PRP VBP IN WP PRP MD VB , NN VBZ DT NN IN NN . 
DT NNP NNP NNP 
POS NNS RB VBP TO VBG IN DT NNS , CC IN RB VBG , VB PDT DT NNS WDT VBP PRP TO VB IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . WP VBZ JJ VBZ IN CC RB DT JJ NN NNS MD VB DT NNP . IN NN TO VB CC VB . '' NNP NNP IN NNP VBD , '' NN VBZ RB VBG EX VBZ DT VBG IN IN NNP . CC RB DT VBG NN IN NNP . WRB DT NN VBZ IN DT JJ NN . '' NNS VBP VBG IN NN NN NNS . NNP NN NNS VBP DT NN TO VB PRP CC VB JJ NNS , CC PRP MD RB VB JJ . DT NNS VBP IN NN NN NNS VBP IN DT NN IN DT NN . DT MD VB VB WRB NNS IN NNS MD VB JJ NNS , CC RB DT JJ JJ : RB DT IN NN NN NNS : MD VB DT NN CC NN . 
IN DT NN NNS , DT NN VBZ VBG , NN IN NN , DT NN WDT MD VB IN DT JJ NN IN PRP VBZ VBN . PDT DT NN MD RB VB VBN TO VB CC VB NNP NNS . IN JJ NNS , DT JJ NN NN VBZ RB IN DT JJ CC DT RB JJ . DT NN VBZ VBN NN NN . PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN CD WRB DT NN IN NNP . NNS , VBN IN NNP NNP , VBD IN PRP VBD VBN IN VBG DT NN WDT VBD DT JJ NN DT JJ NNS IN VBG DT NN IN CC IN . NNP NNP VBD DT NN VBD VBN IN VBG JJ NNS IN NN NNS WDT VBP DT NN IN DT RB JJ . DT NN NN , PRP VBD , '' NNS WDT MD RB VB VBN IN VBG JJ NNS . '' WP VBZ VBZ IN DT NN IN VBG VBZ DT NNS . RB IN DT NN CC NN VBN DT NN , CC RB VBD PRP , IN NN MD VB DT NN PRP . 
NNP NNP NNP NN NN , VBD NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP PRP VBP DT JJ NN IN NN . PRP$ NN VBD VBN RB IN DT NN . PRP VBD CD NNS RB . PRP VBD CD , CC PRP VBD DT NN NN . PRP VBD VBN DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN , WDT VBD RP VBG DT NN . CC PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ NN . PRP VBD RB CD NNS , RB JJ , CC MD RB VB VBN VBN IN DT NN . IN PRP VBD VBN IN PRP VBD CD TO VB PRP$ NN , PRP RB MD RB VB VBG IN PRP RB RB . PRP VBD DT NN NN , DT VBN NN NNS , IN NN CC JJ NN CC VBG DT JJ NN IN NN CD . CD NN IN NNS IN NN NN VBP DT VBN NN NNS . NN VBZ RB IN DT NN IN NN PRP$ JJS NN IN JJ NN . PRP MD RB VB DT NN RB VBG PRP . 
WRB JJ VBZ PRP TO VB DT VBG RB . NN : PRP VBZ JJ , CC PRP VBP RB VB PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN JJ IN PRP VBP RB VB DT NN . CC IN NN , PRP VBZ JJ IN DT JJR IN PRP MD VB DT NN , DT RBR PRP MD VB JJ NNS , IN NNS VBG VBN WDT MD VB CC VB DT NN IN NN . NN : PRP MD RB VB RP IN NNP POS MD VB IN DT NN IN NNS WDT VBZ VBG IN DT VBG NN NN , IN VBG JJ TO VB DT VBG NN , PRP VBP , MD RB VB NNS IN NNP POS . NN : IN PRP , CD IN DT RBS JJ NNS VBZ VBG DT RB VBN NNP POS NN IN NN IN DT NN CC VBG PRP WP PRP VBZ , CC PRP VBZ RB VB . PRP VBZ RB VBG TO VB DT VB TO JJ NNS : PRP VBP RB RB VB PRP . NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP NN WP VBD NNP , '' VBD PRP VBP PRP$ NNS . VBP PRP VBP VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN , IN WRB PRP VBP JJR , PRP RB VBP TO VB PRP$ NN CC TO VB TO VB TO NNS IN PRP , CC IN PRP VBP NNP POS , PRP VBP VBN IN NN . 
DT NNS VBP VBN VBG NNS RB IN NNS , IN JJ NNS VBP VBG JJ NNS IN JJ NN CC VBP VBG PRP$ NN IN NN . RB RB , JJ NN WDT JJ NNS NN VBZ VBN VBN CC JJ , IN NNS IN JJ NNS , JJ NN CC JJ NN . RB JJ NNS VBP VBG JJ , JJ NNS IN NNP CC NNP CC JJ JJ NNS : NNS VBN IN IN JJS DT JJ NNS IN JJ , JJ NN . NNP NNP , DT NNP POS NNP NNP NN , CC JJ NNS VBD NNS VBD RB VBG DT JJ NNS IN NNS , VBG JJ NN NNS , NNS CC NNS . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP$ NN VBZ VBG JJ NNS IN NN NN , VBD PRP VBD DT NN IN NN NNS , NNS IN JJ NNS , JJ NNS TO NNS CC NNS TO NNS POS NNS IN NN NN NNS : RB IN JJ NNP CC NNP , VBD DT NN . 
NNS VBP NNS IN DT NN VBZ VBG TO VB VBN , PRP MD RB VB DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC NN TO WDT PRP VBZ VBZ JJ . PRP MD VB RB JJ CC RB JJ . '' IN DT NN MD VB VBN , DT JJ NNS VBP IN VBG NN VBZ RB JJ . DT JJ NNS VBP JJ NNS IN NNS IN JJ NN , CC PRP VBP DT NN . NNP VBZ IN NNS VBP RBR RB IN NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN , IN DT NN IN JJ NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN . '' VBD DT JJ NN TO VB RB IN VBN NN , CC RB PRP VBP VBG RB TO PRP , WDT VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . IN NN VBZ VBN , VBG DT NN VBZ IN IN DT NN IN JJS NNS , NNP . NNP VBD . 
WP VBZ RB VBN VBZ DT NN IN NN CC NN IN VBG RP JJ JJ NNS , IN CC RB DT NN VBZ VBN . CC PRP VBP DT NN VBG JJR CC VBG PRP$ NN , PRP$ NN NNS MD VB RP , RB IN PRP VBP RB VB NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP . 
CD NN IN NNP NNP , NNP , VBD PRP NN WRB PRP$ JJ NN VBD RB NN CC NN NN . CC DT NN VBD IN DT NN VBD VBG EX VBD NN TO VB RB . CD NNS RB , NNP NNP PRP . NNP , NN IN DT NNS NN IN NNP NNP POS NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN DT NN VBD DT JJ NN , JJ JJ JJ NN , WDT , VBD JJ , JJ NN NN CC MD VB NN , NN CC NN . CC VBD RB CD NNS IN NN NN , '' DT NN VBD . IN CD , DT NN VBD VBN IN DT NN IN NNS , IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNPS CC NNPS CC VBN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN . VBN IN NNP NNP POS NNS , PRP VBD , DT NNS IN VBG NN MD VB VBN . RB , PRP VBD , IN JJ NNS , DT JJ NNS WP VBP TO VB VBN IN JJ NN VBP JJ NNS IN NN CD CC JJ NNS IN NN CD WP VBP VBG NNS CC JJ NN . 
PRP$ JJ NN MD VB DT NN RB RB IN WRB RB PRP VBP CC VBP CC RB IN PRP$ NN IN NN CC NN NN . DT NN IN NNS VBP VBN DT NN IN JJ NN CC DT VBN NN IN VBG NNS IN DT NN CC NN NN . CC VBG RP DT NNS VBZ VBN JJ . RB DT JJ NN VBZ VBN WP JJ NNS VBN DT RBS JJ NN RB . DT NN VBD IN JJR NNS WP VBD VBN CD TO CD NNS VBD RBR JJ IN DT WP VBD VBN JJR NN TO VB DT JJ NN NN IN NN : NN VBG DT JJ NNS TO DT NN . DT VBG NN IN DT NN IN DT NNS CC DT NNS VBZ IN JJ NN , DT JJ NN IN DT NNS , MD VB DT NN IN NN NNS WDT VBP NN IN DT NN . JJ NN IN DT NNS VBZ VBN TO VB TO VB , DT NN IN NN NNS WDT MD VB TO VB CC NN NN . 
CC DT NN IN PRP VBZ VBG : NNS VBP VBG DT NNS RB IN NN , CC NN NNS VBP VBG . CC , IN JJ NNS , NNS VBP JJ CC VBN RB . IN DT NNS , NN VBZ RB VBN NNS , CC IN NNS , DT JJ NN VBZ VBN JJ TO VB JJ NNS IN JJ NN . NN , DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ DT NNP . CD NN , NN NN . DT CD NNPS VBP NN NNS DT NN CC PDT DT CD NN . DT JJ NN VBZ VBN IN WRB TO VB NN NNS , WRB TO VB NNS CC NN NN . CC NNS VBP VBN IN IN NN , JJ CC IN IN DT NN NN NN VBZ VBN IN . IN DT JJ NNS : RB DT JJ NN IN DT NN POS NN NN NNS VBP DT NN , NN , WDT MD VB JJ NNS . RB JJ JJ NNS VBP JJ TO VB NNS RB IN NN NN NNS VBP RB JJ . 
PRP VBZ NN TO VB IN DT NNS IN DT NN IN NN NN CC NN CC VB DT NNS CC NN VBN TO VBG NN WDT MD VB VB PRP JJ NN . NNP NNP NNP VBZ NN IN NNP . NNP NNP POS NNP NNP '' CC DT JJ NN IN NN IN NNP . JJ NNP . 
NNP VBZ IN PRP MD VB NN , VBD , VBD NN NN ( CC RB DT NN IN NN RB ) IN DT CD NNS IN DT JJ NN . NNP IN DT , PRP VBZ IN PRP MD VB CD NNS DT NN IN NN . RB , PRP VBD PDT DT WRB PRP VBD . DT NN VBD PRP DT NNS IN NN , WDT PRP VBP DT NN IN NN , IN PRP VBD DT NN NNS . IN DT NN , DT NN IN DT NNS VBZ JJ IN DT JJ NNS . PRP VBP RB RB JJ WRB PRP VBD VBN . NNS RB , IN VBG DT NN NN , PRP VBD IN DT NN IN DT NN NN VBN IN DT NN , WDT VBZ VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN . JJ NN , PRP$ NN RB VBD . NN MD VB VBN DT NN CC VBD IN PRP VBD RB IN DT NN ( CD ) TO VB DT NN IN DT NN NN '' NN . PRP VBD DT NN CC , IN VBG JJ IN PRP , VBD , MD RB . '' 
RB NNS IN NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNP NNP , VBP DT NN IN NNP IN JJ , RB VBN NNS . CD IN PRP$ NNS , DT JJ JJ NN IN NNP NNP , WP VBD NN IN NN NNS , VBD IN JJ NNP NNS IN DT JJ CD NNS VBD VBN DT IN DT NN PRP VBD IN JJ NN NN CC NN IN JJ NN . PRP MD RB VB RB , CC PRP MD VB CD NNS RB IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . MD VBP VBN RB DT NNS . '' NNP NNP VBZ IN NNP MD VB RBR RB VBN . CC VBP VBN IN PRP VBZ DT NN NN IN VBG IN DT NNS IN VBG , '' PRP VBD . NNS VBP NNS IN NNS IN NN , CC PRP VBZ JJ IN PRP VBP NNS . DT JJ NN VBZ IN DT NNS VBP VBG VBN IN DT NNP . '' IN DT NN , DT NNS VBP . 
CD IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN VBZ IN DT JJR PRP$ NN MD VB DT NN , DT JJR . DT VBZ VBN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS . VBG JJ NN NN , IN NN , CC VBG PRP MD VB DT NN POS NN IN NN IN DT JJ CC DT NNS IN NN NN IN CD NN . VBG NNS IN DT JJ NNS IN NNS CC VBG PRP$ NN NN MD VB RB VB DT NNS IN JJ NN , NN CC JJ NN CC NN . IN VBG DT JJ NN , NNS MD VB DT NN IN DT NN CC NN PRP IN PRP VBZ . DT NN IN NN MD VB VBN IN DT VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , WRB NNS CC JJ NNS VBP IN VBG DT NN NNS IN DT JJ CC VBD DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN . NN , DT JJS CC RBS JJ NN NN VBZ NN IN PRP VBZ IN NNS , IN NN , CC VBG NNS TO VB JJR , NN RBR , VB NNS CC NNS CC VB IN NN : DT IN WDT MD VB DT NN IN NN , JJ NN , VBZ CC NN . 
IN JJ NNS VBP VBN RB JJ , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NN NN , DT JJ JJ CC JJ NNS VBP VBN RBR RB IN RB IN . NN VBZ RB VBG JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NN VBZ DT JJ . PRP VBZ TO VB DT NN IN NNS MD VB IN IN PRP$ NNS . '' DT JJ NN RB RB VBN IN JJ CC JJ NNS MD VB DT JJ , PRP VBD . IN NNS , IN NN , JJ NNS VBP VBD NN VBG NN NNS IN NN NNS IN DT JJ JJ NN IN NN VBZ VBN TO VB . DT NNS VBP DT NNS VBP DT JJ NN TO VB IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ RB VB DT NN IN VBG IN JJ NN . VB RB VB TO VB VBN TO DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP . 
IN CD , NNP NNP VBD NNS TO NNS IN DT NNP NNP NN WP VBP IN JJ JJ NN , CC NNP NNP POS NN , IN NNS VBD PRP TO VB RB RB RB JJ TO NN DT NN IN JJ NNS . NNS VBP VBN TO VB IN JJ NNS IN DT NN MD VB TO VB IN NN CC RB IN DT RBR JJ NN IN NN , '' PRP VBD IN DT NN . IN RB , DT NN IN NNP NNP CC JJ JJ NN , CC NNP , VBZ VBN RB . IN DT NN VBZ DT RBS JJ NN IN NN , PRP VBZ RB VBN DT JJ NN IN NN . IN CD NNS VBD VBN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNPS , VBG NNS IN DT JJ NN IN WDT TO VB NNS . DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , WDT NNP NNS IN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS , VBD DT JJ NN WRB NNS VBD IN JJ NN , IN VBN IN NN , VBD JJ NNS IN NNP POS NN CC NN POS NN , DT IN WDT VBD VBN VBN TO VB NN . 
DT NN VBD VBN IN NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . PRP VBD PRP VBD VBN NNP NNP , DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NNS TO DT NN , TO VB DT NNS IN NN IN NNS IN RBR JJ NNS IN DT NN . DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBD IN JJ , VBG PRP VBD VBN NN . CC VBD VBG , '' VBP NNP , RB NNP , '' '' PRP VBD , CC RB NNP VBD DT NN VBG CD NNS WP VBD NN CC DT NN IN CD NNS . DT NN VBD IN DT RB JJR NN IN DT VBG DT NN , NNS VBD . RB , NNP NNS IN DT NNP NNPS VBP JJ . PRP VBZ VBG TO VB JJ IN PRP VBZ DT JJ NN , PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN '' IN DT CD NNS IN DT NN IN NN TO VB NN , NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP RB VB PRP VBZ DT NN NN . PRP VBP PRP$ NNS VBP JJ JJ . '' 
IN NNP NNP , CD NNS ( CC NNP NNS ) JJ NN VBD DT JJ CD IN DT NN IN JJ NNS VBN NNP NNP , CC JJ NN NNS VBP VBG JJ . IN NNP , DT JJ NN VBN NNP NNP VBD NNS . DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT CD POS CC CD POS VBN DT NNP . POS NNS RB RB IN NNS IN NNS VBG IN JJ NNS MD VB DT NNS IN NN NNS CC JJ NNS . CC DT NN IN JJ NNS RB VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNS IN DT JJ NNS , WDT VBP VBG VBN IN DT VBN CD CD TO CD CD NNS . NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ , JJ NNS MD VB TO NN NN CC NN NNS . CC NNS VBP DT RB IN DT NNS VBD NN IN DT NN TO VB DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NN , PRP MD VB JJ IN NN TO VB DT JJ NN NN , VBG RP IN NNS DT NN . 
DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN CD RB TO VB NNS TO VB JJ NNS . JJ NN , NN NNS VBD DT NN IN VBG TO VB NN IN PRP$ JJ NN VBG DT JJ NN WDT VBD . DT NN VBD PRP VBD DT NN TO VB DT NN WDT VBD NNP VBD DT NN , CC DT JJ NNS IN DT NN VBD DT NN VBD VBN IN JJ NN . DT NN , IN JJR IN CD NNS , VBD TO VB IN NNP VBD NN CC VBD DT NN IN NNP . NN VBD TO NNP . CC DT NN VBD NN RB IN JJ NNP NNS VBD VBG IN NN WDT RB VBD NN IN NNS . DT , DT NN VBD , VBD PRP RB JJ IN NNP TO VB DT NN IN DT NN . RB JJ NNS VBD TO VB IN NNP MD VB NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN . CC DT NN VBD IN NNP CD IN DT NN IN NNP VBD NNP RB JJR IN DT NN . DT NN VBZ IN DT NN VBN IN DT NN IN NNS IN JJR JJ NNS , CC PRP MD VB NNS IN DT IN NNP . DT NNS VBG NNP VBP JJ NNS VBP VBN CC , IN NNP POS NN , MD RB VB . 
DT NNP POS NNP NNP VBD RB DT JJ JJ NN TO VB JJ NNS IN NNS CC NN NN . DT NNP CC NNP NNP NNP CC NNP , VBD VBN IN IN NN NN NN MD VB DT JJ NN NN CC VBD IN DT NN RB VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN . NNP JJ NNS VBP IN NN TO VB DT NN IN NN '' NN , CC PRP VBP DT NN NN POS NN IN NNS , CC PRP MD VB NNS IN NN NN , RB NN NNS . IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB VBZ VB WRB EX VBZ JJ DT NN , CC NN , IN DT JJ NNS CC DT VBN JJ NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNS CC NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC NN IN DT NN IN NN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS CC NNPS . NNP , DT NN IN NN NN VBZ NN IN DT : JJS NNS VBP RB VB NN NN IN IN NN , IN NN NNS PRP$ NN NNS , VBG PRP FW CC JJ IN NN . CC IN NNS VBP IN NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN , PRP MD VB NN . IN DT NN , NN MD VB JJ , IN PRP VBZ DT NN TO NN , VBG DT NN IN DT NN NN . 
VBG DT JJ JJ NN WDT VBZ VBG PRP TO VB JJ NNS IN PRP$ NNS , NNP NNP NNP NNP VBD NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN , NNP NNP NNP , VBD VBG VBN . NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBN VBN IN DT NN IN CD NNS , JJ IN DT IN JJ NN NNS , MD VB VBN IN NNP NNP NNP , RB DT JJ NN NN CC DT NN POS NN IN NN . PRP VBD DT NN WDT NNP NNP POS NNS VBD IN DT NN TO VB VBG DT NN IN JJR IN DT JJ NN . '' IN NNP NNP POS NN , DT NN VBD DT JJ NN NN , VBD NNS CC VBD IN DT NN TO VB PRP$ JJ NN IN NN , VBG NNS . CC IN DT NN IN NN NN VBG VBD TO VB IN DT CD POS , CC IN DT JJ NN VBD IN WP VBD DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN CD , DT NN POS NNS VBD TO VB . 
EX VBZ DT NN , IN NN , TO VB DT NN NN IN DT NNS IN JJ NN , IN DT NN IN NNS CC DT NN NNS VBP IN VBG VBN . JJS NNPS MD RB VB RB TO VB DT NN IN DT NN , CC NNP NNP VBZ JJ TO PRP$ NN . IN PRP VBD JJ TO VB , PRP MD VB DT NN NN , '' PRP VBD . VB PRP VBZ RB JJ . IN DT NN PRP VBP IN NN , IN JJS PRP MD VB CD NNS RB , CC PRP MD RB VB CD NN . TO PRP , PRP VBZ IN DT RB JJ NN . PRP MD RB VB DT NN IN NNS NN TO VB NN , VB JJ NN CC VB NNS IN VBG NN . PRP MD VB JJR NNS , CC PRP MD RB VB TO VB CD NNS IN PRP . '' IN JJ NN , NNP NNP VBZ VBN IN DT JJ JJ NNS CC NNS IN NN NN MD RB VB RP . NNP , JJS IN DT NNS MD VB IN DT NNP , IN NNS IN DT NNS MD VB . 
NNP NN NN MD VB IN $ CD TO $ CD , VBG NN NNS : WDT VBP RBR JJ : CC JJ NNS , NNS POS NNS CC JJ NNS . NNP NN VBZ RB RB VB JJ NNS . CC RB IN JJR NNS VBP JJ NN , NNS VBP VBN VBN IN DT JJ NN IN WRB JJS TO VB CC VB NN NNS . NNS MD VB IN DT NN IN NNS CC NNS NN IN DT NN VBG NN NNS , VBG TO NNS POS NNS . CC IN VBG PRP TO VB DT NNP . DT CD NNS VBG DT JJ NN IN DT NN , NNS VBD PRP RB VBP NNS IN DT JJ NN IN $ CD TO $ CD , WDT VBZ JJ TO VB VBN IN NN . DT NNS VBP DT NNS . CC PRP VBD RP PDT DT NNP . POS PRP MD VB IN DT NNS , PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NNS MD RB VB WP PRP VBP IN DT JJ NN IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP , NNP , WP VBD JJ NNS JJ NN . 
NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP , NNP , VBD VBG IN DT NNP NNP CD NNS RB WRB PRP VBD JJ , VBD PRP$ NN IN NN CC VBD , IN PRP VBD PRP , VBG IN DT NN . PRP VBD TO VB RB TO PRP$ NNS POS NN IN NNP NNP CC VBD TO NN . CC VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN , '' PRP VBD . IN PRP VBD VBG , PRP VBD VBN IN NN TO DT JJ NN . VB DT NN PRP VBD RB , DT NNS VBD PRP$ NNS VBD VBG IN IN PRP$ NN , '' PRP VBD . NN VBD IN DT JJS NN NN IN DT NN CC MD RB VB PRP . '' DT JJ NNS VBD JJ NNS IN CC IN PRP$ NNS CC PRP VBD NN TO NNP NNP DT JJ NN . NNP NNP VBZ PRP$ NN VBD DT NN IN NN NNS PRP VBD RB VBN IN CD , WRB PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN CC NNP NN VBD VBN . 
CC VBP DT NN . VBP RB DT JJ JJ NN NNS IN CD NN FW CD NN NN WDT NNP VBG NNS . DT JJ NN VBZ DT . PRP VBP TO VB RB WRB DT JJ NN NN VBZ VBN . PRP VBZ DT NN . VB CD NNS VBN IN NN NN CD NNS RB . IN CD VBP JJ NN , DT CD NN NN VBZ 1000 , CC CD NN . CC RB IN NNP VBG VBD DT JJ NN NN TO CD NN , PRP VBZ RB JJ IN DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN . DT JJS NN TO VB DT NN VBZ TO VB IN DT JJ NN . NNP , VB DT NN IN NNS IN NN NN WP MD DT VB IN NN CD . IN PRP RB VBP DT NN WRB PRP VBP CD , PRP$ JJ NN NN MD VB CD NN . CC IN DT JJ NNS VBD VBN PRP$ NNS RB : IN , VBP , NN CD : DT JJ NN NN MD VB CD NN . CC NN MD RB VB IN CD IN DT IN PRP . JJR NN RB VBZ DT JJ NN JJ , CC PRP VBZ RB RB VB IN NN VBZ VBN . 
DT NN IN JJR IN CD CD NNS DT NN VBD TO VB DT NN IN NN . CC PRP VBZ VBN DT NN , VBG DT CD NNS WP VBP VBN TO VB VBN PRP IN JJ NNS IN NNP . NNP NNP CC JJ NNS VBD RB IN NNP IN NNP VBD RB VBN NNS IN JJ NNS CC JJ TO NNP NNP IN VBG NNP NNP RBR DT NN . DT NNP NNP NN VBD DT VBD TO VB IN NNS CC JJ EX VBD JJ NN : NNP VBZ RB VBN DT JJ NNS . JJS NNS IN JJ NNS VBP RB IN NNS , RB NNS . CC NNS MD VB VBN IN DT NN NNS CC JJ NNS IN NN . WRB DT NNS NN CC NN NNS IN DT NN , DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN WDT NNS VBP JJ NN . JJ NNS VBP IN DT JJ JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN : DT JJ NN IN JJ , DT NNP NN IN JJ CC DT NNP NNP NN IN CD : VBD WRB JJ NN NNS VBD IN NNS TO NNS . NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN NN IN CD CD TO CD CD , IN DT JJ CD NNS RB VBD CD CD TO CD CD NNS . 
CC RB IN NNP POS NN VBZ RB JJ , WDT RB VBZ DT JJ NN NN IN IN CD TO CD NN , VBG IN CD TO CD NN IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ NNS VBP RB IN VBG DT NN NN . CC EX VBZ JJ NN TO VB IN DT MD VB DT JJ . IN DT JJ NN , JJ VBN JJ NNS VBP VBN IN DT JJ NN NN IN WDT DT NNS VBP DT NN NN CC NN WP VBZ RB TO PRP VBZ VBN : DT CD TO CD NN VBZ IN IN DT NN , RB , DT VBZ RB VBN VBN IN JJ NNS . IN DT JJ NN , JJ NNS VBP IN DT NN MD VB JJR IN CD NN IN NNS WDT VBP VBN JJR IN CD NNS , RB IN PRP VBD RB VBN IN DT JJ NN . VBN IN JJ NNS RB VBP JJ NN NNS ( IN , RB , NN NNS RB VBP DT , RB ) CC IN JJ NNS MD VB VBN TO VB PRP VBP RB RB VB DT JJ NN TO PRP$ NNS , WRB MD RB VB VB NNP POS NN DT NN . 
IN NN , DT JJ NN VBD CC : PRP VBD RB DT NN IN CD NNS IN JJ NN CC DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN WRB PRP VBD VBG . PRP VBD VBN JJS IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN . WRB MD PRP VB IN DT JJ NNS . VBG NNS VBD TO JJ NN NNS TO VB DT JJ NN IN NN NN . IN CD , NNS IN NNS VBD NNS . CD NNS RB , RB CD NN VBD . IN DT NN , RB , PRP VBD JJ IN IN VBG RP IN DT JJ NN TO DT NN , DT NNS VBD VBN VBN . IN CD , DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP VBD DT NN WDT VBD DT JJ NN IN NN TO VB DT NNS , IN DT PRP$ JJ NN , VBD RB RB RB VBN IN DT NNS PRP VBD RB PRP VBD IN NN . DT NNS VBD NN IN VBG DT JJS NNS , RB JJ VBD RP VBG IN DT RB JJ NN . JJS IN PRP$ NNS VBD RB RB RB TO VB IN DT NN CC VBD PRP$ NNS TO VB PRP VB DT NN . JJ NN VBD DT NNS RB JJ IN DT NN . IN DT NN , NN NNS , IN DT JJ NNP . POS , VBD DT NN PRP RB VBD IN DT NN . 
DT NN VBZ IN DT JJ NN MD VB $ CD , RB CD NNS JJR IN JJ NNS . CD , PRP MD VB RBR JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC IN PRP VBP JJ PRP MD VB DT NN IN NN . '' DT JJS NN TO VB NN NN CC NN NNS VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP , CC DT JJ NN IN JJ NN . NNP VBZ RB VBN , PRP VBD , IN NN IN DT NNP NN NN '' VBN TO VB DT NNS IN JJ NN RB IN VBG DT JJ NNS . JJR IN CD NN IN NN NN , NNP NNP NNS , VBZ JJ . IN DT NNS , NNP NNP VBZ VBN JJ NNS VBG IN JJ NNS IN JJ , NN CC NN NN MD VB CC RB VB NN NN . JJ NNS VBP NN NN , CC MD VB JJ NN NNS TO NNS IN CD NN CC JJR , RB JJ NNS VBP IN JJ NN . 
IN DT NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP VBD RP IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP . RB PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP WRB NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD DT NNS IN DT NN . PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN DT NNP NNP , WP$ NN VBD NNP NNP . DT VBD CD NNS RB . JJ JJ NN , IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP VBD IN WP MD VB VBN IN JJ NN TO PRP . NNS IN JJ NN VBD VBN PRP$ NN IN PRP$ JJ NN . NNP CC NN VBD PRP IN VBG JJR IN CD NNS IN DT NN . '' VBZ DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBP RB VBG IN DT IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP$ NN : RB JJ NN . NNP NNP VBZ RB RB . IN CD CD NNPS VBP VBN IN NN . ( VBG TO DT JJ NN , DT NN MD VB TO JJR IN CD CD IN CD , IN DT NN NNS VBP JJR . ) NNP VBP DT JJR NN IN NNS IN VBG DT NN , RB NNS IN CD . CC DT NN NNS VBP VBG DT NN IN PRP$ NNS : JJR NNS VBG JJ NNS , CC RB , IN PRP$ CD POS RB IN IN PRP$ CD POS CC CD POS , WDT MD VB VBN TO JJR NN IN JJ NNS . 
PRP VBZ JJ . PRP VBP DT RB . DT NN IN NNS VBZ DT NN IN DT NN , WDT VBZ RBR IN PRP$ NNS IN IN PRP$ NNS RB . EX VBP DT NN NNS IN DT NN , CC PRP MD VB DT NN NN IN DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN . DT NNS VBD RB JJ , RB JJ NN TO PRP . VB PRP VBD DT NNS . RB JJ JJ NN VBN , CC DT NN VBZ , PRP$ NNS VBP DT IN DT NN IN NN , DT JJ JJ , JJ JJ NN WDT VBZ VBN NNS NN . NN PRP . NNP VBP NNS . NNS VBP VBN TO VB JJ NN . UH , PRP VBZ PRP$ NN IN NN . IN DT NN DT NN VBZ CD CC NNS IN DT NN , JJR IN EX VBZ DT NN NN , PRP VBZ VBN VBN CC VBN IN DT NN . NNS WP VBP VBN NNS MD VB IN JJ JJ NN . WRB NNP NNP VBZ RP DT NN , NNS MD RB VB NNS , CC PRP VBP TO VB CC VB PRP . 
EX VBP JJR NNS IN JJ IN NN VBZ IN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP POS JJ NNS . CD NN VBZ JJ , DT JJ VBZ VBN . JJR NNS VBP RBR JJ TO VB VBN , RB . NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NN POS JJ NN , VBD , EX VBP VBG DT NNS . '' IN NNP NNP . PRP VBD RB VBG NNP IN $ CD CC VBG IN DT NN VBD RB JJ , VBG RP NNP IN $ CD DT NN , CC VBG NNP IN JJ NN NNS . CC NN VBD JJR IN DT NNS IN $ CD IN DT NN CC NN IN PRP VBD VBN WRB PRP VBD IN NNP , NNP . DT JJ NN IN PRP$ CD IN NNS NNS IN NNP VBD JJR IN $ CD , PRP VBD . NNS MD VB NN IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBP NNS RP RB WP VBP VBN DT NN . IN WP VBZ DT JJ NN IN VBG PRP$ NN CC VBG DT NN . '' 
RB RB , PRP VBZ VBG TO VB IN DT NN VBZ VBN VBG RB RBR JJ , CC IN PRP VBZ RB RB RB VBN IN JJ CC JJ NN NNS IN PRP MD VB JJ TO VB . JJ NNS VBD JJ NN IN NN NNS VBN IN JJ NNS IN NNP VBD VBG RB JJ NN WRB VBN TO NNS , WDT VBP RB VBN IN DT NN TO VB WP MD VB IN NNS . RB , DT NNP NNP NNP VBD JJ NN IN JJ NN VBD TO VB VBN IN NN IN JJ JJ NNS , VBG NNP , NNP , NNP CC NNP . DT JJ NN NNS RB DT NN , IN WDT JJR IN CD CD NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN TO VB DT NN IN DT NN , RB VBD JJ IN DT NN . CD NNP NNPS NNS : DT NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP CC NNP NNP : VBP VBN RP PRP$ NNS TO VB DT NN IN NNS IN DT NN MD VB TO NNS . 
NNS , NNS CC NNS MD VB PRP$ JJ NNP NNS , RB , IN PDT DT NNS MD VB TO PRP . DT JJ NN IN NNS MD RB VB IN NNP NNS VBZ RB RB VBN , CC RB , EX VBZ DT JJ IN VBG RB VBN IN DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS RB VBP PRP MD VB DT NNP NNS , VBG JJ IN DT NN IN NNS , WP VBD NN DT TO PRP . NNS VBD DT NN IN NN IN NN NNS CC JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBZ JJ NN CC NN VBG NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP POS NNS VBP JJ IN VBG DT NN IN DT NN POS NN . '' DT WP VBP VBN NNP NN NNS VBP VBN . IN NNP NNP , WDT VBZ DT JJ NNP NN , NNP NNP VBD DT JJ PRP . PRP VBZ RB VBD DT NN . IN DT JJ NN IN NN NN IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBD TO VB PRP$ NNS , RB IN PRP VBD DT NNS . 
CC DT NN NNS TO VB VBN MD VB NN , VBD NNP NNP IN NNP , WP VBZ RB DT NN IN NN . PRP VBZ JJ , PRP VBD , IN DT NNS VBP DT JJ JJ NN NNS , IN WRB VBN IN DT NN PRP VBP TO VB NNS VBN NN IN NN IN DT NN IN NN NNS VBG NN , NN CC NN . RB , NNP NNP VBD , IN JJ NNS , IN VBG JJ NNS , VBG DT JJ NN IN NN NN MD VB JJ NNS IN NNS . CC DT NN VBZ VBG . CD JJ NN , EX VBZ DT NN PRP MD VB IN JJ NNS IN CD CC CD NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP , NNP , NN WDT VBZ VBN VBG JJ NN CC RB VBZ RB DT NN IN NNS . CD NN VBZ VBP PRP VBG TO VB IN TO VB VBG DT NN . '' 
JJ NN NNS NN RB VBD DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN IN NNPS WP VBP IN JJ TO JJ NN IN NN NN . DT JJ NNS VBP IN NN IN JJ NNS IN NNS IN NNPS WP VBD VBN PRP$ NN NNS VBD JJ . RB JJR IN CD CD NNS VBP DT NNS . CC RB , JJR MD VB , DT NNS VBP . IN NNS IN DT JJS NN , PRP VBP IN DT NN NN IN NNP , DT NN IN NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN NN NN , MD VB JJR IN CD . DT VBZ CD NNS JJR IN RB VBN . IN NNS IN RB JJ NN , VBG NNP . TO IN CD IN NN MD VB RB VBN , DT NN VBD . DT NN IN NNS IN JJ NN VBZ JJ . DT NNS VBD VBN NN IN DT NN NNP CC VBN IN DT NNP NNP , NNP CC NNP NNP : DT NNP NNP NNP : CC DT NNP NNP IN NNP . DT NNS VBD DT NN VBD VBN IN NNS IN CD JJ JJ NNS VBG IN DT JJ NN NNS VBD RB JJ RB CC IN JJR JJ NN NN VBD TO JJR NNS . 
NNP NNP RB RB NNS TO NNP TO VB PRP$ NN IN DT NN POS NN . PRP VBZ PRP VBZ VBN DT JJ CD NNS IN VBG DT NN . CC JJ PRP VBP VBN PRP$ NN IN NN , RB , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP RB VBZ NN IN PRP$ TO VB , WRB PRP RB RBR NNS VBG DT NN IN NN . DT JJ JJ NN NN , NNP NNP , CD , VBD PRP VBD TO VB NNS VBG PRP$ NN IN CD NN NN TO DT , VBG IN NN IN DT NN . CC VBP CD NNS , CD NNS , CD NNP NNS : NN VBZ VBG JJ JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ NNS IN DT NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNPS NNP NNP IN NNPS . NNP NNP VBD CD NNS CC PRP VBZ DT JJ JJ NN PRP VBD . CC PRP VBZ DT NN PRP VBD VBN VBZ VBN PRP$ NN IN NN , CC PRP MD RB RBR VB PRP . 
NNS VBP VBN IN NNS DT NNS WDT VBP DT NN TO VB : NN , VBZ , JJ NN CC DT JJ NN VBN IN JJ NN . CC DT JJ NN VBZ JJ NN NN . CC PDT DT JJ NN NNS , JJ NN NN VBZ DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NN NN , PRP VBP JJR IN NN : IN NN PRP VBP IN JJ NN NN . '' DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBZ IN IN JJ NN NN , DT JJ NN NNS IN DT NN VBP RP RB JJ CC RB JJ TO VB DT NN IN PRP MD VB JJ . RB PRP VBP VBN . DT NN VBZ DT NN . NNP , NNS VBP PRP VBP RB VB PRP$ NN NN NN CC RB VB TO VB PRP IN PRP VBP RB . CC , NNP NNP VBD , NNS VBP RB RB TO VB . NNS MD RB VB NN TO VB IN NNS , VBG NN NN , VBG PRP IN NNS IN PRP$ JJ CC NN WDT MD VB , CC VBG JJ NNS CC VBG PRP IN JJ . 
NNP NNP , IN RB JJ JJ NN NN NNS IN NNP NNP , VBD VBN IN NNS IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN IN WP NN , IN DT , NNS CC NN NN MD VB IN NN NN IN NNP NNP . IN PRP VBD DT NN IN PRP VBD VBN WRB DT NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP NN VBD VBN JJ NN CC VBD IN CD NNS RB VBD IN JJ NNS IN NN NN VBP , IN NN , RB RB JJ IN DT NNP POS NN NN , WDT VBZ JJR IN DT NN CC JJ NNS . DT NN IN NNP NNP VBZ CD NNS IN CD NNS CC IN NNP NNP , DT NN VBZ CD . DT NN POS NN VBZ CD NNS IN CD NNS , CC RB , PRP VBZ CD . IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NN VBZ CD . VBN CC RB VBD , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBD DT MD VB PRP PDT DT NNS , CC DT NN IN NN VBZ PRP RB VBZ JJR NNS . '' 
DT NNP CC NNP NNP , WP$ NN VBZ VBN IN NN NN NNS , VBD . EX VBP DT NN IN JJ NNS CC NN NNS TO VB VBN IN DT IN DT MD VB RB , '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN POS NN IN JJ CC NN NNS , VBD IN DT NN . CC VBP RB RB VB WP PRP MD VB VBN IN IN DT JJ NN VBZ RB VBN VBN RB . '' DT NNP NNPS IN NNP VBD DT NN IN NNS JJ NNP TO VB DT NN IN NNP . NNS IN NN NN , WDT VBZ VBG NNS IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN POS NNS . CC NNP NNP VBD DT NN , JJR JJ JJ NN MD VB VBN IN PRP$ NN MD VB VBG DT JJ JJ NN . '' NN VBZ RB RB VBN IN IN PRP$ JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ DT RB NN IN NNP . WDT VBZ PRP JJ IN NN NN , WDT RB RB VBZ RB VBN RP TO PRP$ NNS . NNS IN NN , IN NN , VBP DT VBN JJ NN WDT VBZ PRP IN VBG DT JJ NN VBD IN NN NN . CC IN JJ IN DT NN POS NNS MD VB VBN IN DT JJ NN , DT NN MD VB PRP$ JJ NN VBG NN . 
IN NN , PRP VBZ , PRP MD VB DT NN NN IN JJ NN IN NN CC NNS , WDT VBP CD NNS IN JJ NNS RP IN DT NNS . '' RB , PRP VBZ , PRP VBZ NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS IN NNS JJ IN NNS CC NNS . NNP NNP NNP 
DT NN , IN JJ , IN NN NN VBZ DT NN IN JJ DT NN , NNS VBD . CC VBD PDT DT NN NN CC RB VBD PRP TO DT NN , WDT VBZ WP PRP VBP DT NN MD VB VBG , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP VBD IN IN JJ NNS IN NNP MD VB JJ TO NN NN RB , RB , IN PRP VBP NNP VBZ RB VB PRP MD VB DT JJ NN . '' CC PRP VBD , '' PRP MD RB VB NNP , PRP MD RB VB NN RB . '' 
DT NNP NN RB VBD RB JJ NNS . DT NN , WDT VBD RB CD NNS IN JJ NN NN IN CD IN CD , VBD IN NNS VBG NNP VBD DT CD NN JJR NN NN IN DT NNS IN DT VBG NN NNS , DT JJ NN IN NN NN NN . NNS IN NN NNS CC JJ JJ NNS RB VBD CD NN JJR IN NNS VBG NNP . CC NNP VBD TO VB DT RB JJ NN IN NNS IN JJ JJ NN NN , DT JJ NN IN DT NN . 
NNP NNP VBD EX VBD DT NN IN DT NN : NNP NNP , DT NN NN , VBD JJR NNS IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN IN IN DT NN NN , IN PRP VBD VBG DT JJ NNS RB , IN NNS CC NN NNS . IN PRP VBD RBR JJ TO VB IN PRP VBD RB VBN NN NN . CC VBZ DT NN VBD JJ NNS IN DT NNS . RB , DT CD NNS VBP . NNP NNP VBZ DT NN POS NN VBZ IN DT NN IN CD NNS IN NN NN IN CD NNS . CC , PRP VBZ , EX VBD CD JJR NNS VBD IN DT VBN NN IN IN DT NN NN . IN RB CD NN IN DT CD NNS VBD IN NN NN , CC IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN NN WRB PRP VBD RB VBN , WDT MD VB VBN DT JJ CD NN NN NNS . DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , MD RBR IN VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBD IN VBG . 
DT NN VBD VBN RP PDT DT JJ NN IN DT RB VBN JJ NN . RB , IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN , DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBD CC VBD DT NN POS NN NN IN NNP NN , VBG TO VB DT NN NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN . RB , IN DT JJ NN , DT NN NN VBD NN . VBD CD NNS IN DT JJ NN , DT NN MD VB VBN VBG NN IN DT JJ NN NN , IN PRP$ JJ JJ NN . CC RB VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN , '' VBD NNP . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN , PRP$ NNS VBG IN PRP$ JJ NN IN PRP VBD DT NN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NN NN VBD IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP . CD IN NNP NNP NNP . TO PRP$ NNS , NNP NNP POS NN IN NNP CD IN PRP VBD VBN JJ NNS IN NN NNS WDT VBD DT NN IN PRP$ NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN VBG NN NNS IN NNS IN JJ NN NNS , NN NNS CC JJ NN NNS . 
NNP VBZ VBN DT JJ JJ NN NN NN , CC DT NN IN NNS VBP VBG TO VB PRP IN DT JJ NN , VBN DT NN . DT JJ NN NNS VBP , IN NN , IN NNP MD VB VBN NN : DT RB JJ NN : IN DT JJR NN IN VBG RB RB . DT NN IN DT NN MD VB VBN IN DT NNS . IN CD IN CD , NNPS VBD RB VBG NN . IN DT NN , DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS VBD IN CD NNS , IN DT IN JJ NNS VBD RB CD NNS . RB DT NN VBD : IN CD TO CD , DT JJ NN IN NNPS VBD IN RB CD NNS . NN VBD JJR , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP . JJ NNS VBP JJR IN PRP VBD CD , CD NNS RB : NNP NNS VBP JJR . '' CC DT NN RB VBZ RBR . NNP NN VBZ VBN RP IN JJR IN CD NNS IN DT JJ CD NNS , CC NN NN , RB DT JJ NN , VBZ IN DT NN . 
DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNS JJ RB IN NN , WRB PRP VBZ NN IN PRP CC VBZ DT NN VBN IN DT NN . RB IN DT NN VBZ VBN , DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN NNS . DT NN VBD DT NN MD RB VB NNS IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , IN DT NNS IN DT NN VBP RB JJ IN DT NN POS NN . RB , PRP VBD , DT NNS VBN IN NN NNS IN JJ NNS MD VB RB JJ TO DT NN POS JJ NNS IN PRP MD RB VB VBN IN VBN RB IN DT NN . DT JJ NN TO VB JJ JJ NNS VBZ TO VB NN NNS VBN IN VBG DT NN POS JJ NNS . DT NN , VBN IN JJ NN , VBZ TO VB JJ NN IN DT NN POS NN CC VB PRP IN DT NN WDT VBZ VBG PRP$ JJ NN , VBG DT NN WDT VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN . CC IN DT NN VBD IN DT NN MD IN NN VB JJ TO VB IN DT NN , NNP NNP NNS CC JJ NN NNS VBP VBN . 
NNP NNP POS NN IN VBG VBD IN CD , IN DT NN VBN DT NN NNP VBD VBN IN DT NN . IN PRP , PRP VBD IN IN PRP VBD NNP IN NN , NN NNS VBN CC VBN , CC NNS , WDT VBP VBN IN NN NN , VB JJ . CC VBD DT CC VBD , '' VBZ RB JJ , '' '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD TO VB DT NN , CC RB NN VBD VBN , CC RB NNP NNP VBD IN DT NNS POS NNS : PRP VBD NN CC VBD RBR JJ TO VB NN NN : VBD IN DT NNS WP PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN NN NNS . CC PRP VBD RB VBN WRB DT NN NN NN NNS VBD IN DT NNP CC NNP VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN NN . DT NNS VBP RP , RB , IN DT NN VBZ RB VBN JJR NNS WDT VBP DT NNP CC NNP TO VB IN PRP RB VBP NN NN NN . DT NNP NNS VBP JJ , RB JJ , CC PRP VBP IN DT JJ TO VB DT NN IN DT JJR NN . JJ JJ NNS VBP NNP , NN , CC NN . 
NNP VBZ DT . PRP VBZ IN NNS IN JJ NNS VBP RBR JJ IN JJ NNS TO VB VBN , DT IN PRP JJ . CC PRP VBZ JJ NN IN RB JJ . IN NN TO DT NN CC NN NNS , PRP VBZ NN VBG IN VBG NNS TO VB JJ IN NN , CC VBG PRP JJR NNS , VBZ DT NN IN PRP$ NNS . DT NNS VBD IN DT NN VBD RB JJ : DT NNS POS NNS VBD TO VB IN NN RB RB IN IN NN . CC NNP NNS IN DT JJ NN , '' WDT VBZ CD TO VB DT NN CC RB TO VB DT NN IN DT NN . '' VBZ DT NN IN NN , RB , VBZ PRP RB JJ TO VB PDT DT NN IN PRP$ NNS : CC VB DT JJ NN NN . CC IN PRP VBZ JJ TO VB RP IN JJ NNS VBP RB VB JJR NNS IN NN , NN CC NN NNS , WDT VBZ RB VB DT NNS VBP RB DT NN IN VBG NN IN DT WP VBP RB JJ TO PRP . IN DT IN DT NN IN NNP POS JJ NNS NNS , PRP VBP RB RB IN PRP$ NNS VBP PRP TO CC IN PRP$ NNS VBP , IN NN IN DT NN CC NN IN NN CC NN . 
RB , NNP NNP VBD , DT NN VBZ VBN VBN . PRP VBD IN DT JJ NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP IN NNS IN JJ NNS , IN VBG DT NN . JJR CC JJR IN PRP$ NNS VBP JJ IN DT , CC PRP VBP JJ RB RB , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN POS NN NN . DT NNS VBP JJ IN DT NNP NN NN CC PRP VBP VBN JJ NN , PRP VBD . CC EX MD VB DT NN IN VBG RB RB RB RB . NNS MD VB IN IN PRP VBP IN DT NNS , DT NN IN PRP VBD RB JJ VBZ NN DT NN VBZ JJ IN VBG , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN VBG IN NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP . DT VBD TO DT NNP NN WP$ NNS VBD JJ NN NNS , WDT VBD PRP IN JJ NN TO NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . DT NN VBD NNP NNP IN PRP MD VB PRP$ NN TO VB IN DT NN NN , CC RB IN DT JJ NN VBD DT JJ NN IN NN . NNP NNP VBD . 
JJ NN PRP VBD TO VB VBZ WRB JJ PRP VB NNP POS RB VBN NN NN TO RB VB DT VBN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP , WDT VBD DT NN IN DT NNS VBN , VBG DT JJ NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP NNP . DT NN VBD VBN TO DT NNP NN POS JJ NN NN NN NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP VBD VBN IN NNS IN WRB TO VB DT JJ NN NN NN . DT JJ NN , WDT DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN , '' VBZ RB IN DT JJ CC NN NN IN DT NNP . DT JJ NN , DT NN VBZ , MD VB DT NN IN DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN VBG DT JJ NN CC VBG JJ JJ NNS , CC MD VB RP DT JJ NNS CC NN NN '' TO VB DT NN . 
DT JJ JJ NN WP VBD VBG NNS IN DT RB JJ NN NN NN VBD VBN NN , CD NNS IN JJ NNS VBG PRP$ NN VBD DT NN CC VBN NNS IN PRP$ NN RB , DT NNP IN DT NNP . DT NN , NNP NNP , VBD IN DT NN VBN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP TO VB VBN IN JJ NN , VBN IN NN IN JJ NN , VBD DT NNS IN DT NNS IN JJ NN NN . PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN CD VBD IN VBD DT NN NN , CC PRP$ JJ NNS VBD DT NN IN NN NNS , WP VBD VBG IN WRB TO VB DT NN IN DT RB JJR NN IN NNS . CC IN DT NN NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP , NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP , VBD DT NN VBD IN PRP VBD VBN DT NNS IN PRP$ NN CC VBD NNS , DT NN CC , RBS RB , PRP$ NNS . 
NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN CC JJ NN NN IN NNP , NNP , VBD RP IN PRP VBD NNP CD VBZ JJR IN DT NN RB . CC PRP VBD RB VB DT NN RB IN CD NNS RB , WRB JJ NN NN : DT NN IN NNS : VBD TO NN NN . CC VBG IN IN NN NN , PRP VBD VBG IN DT NN RP PRP$ NN CC VBD DT NN IN NN IN DT NNS , WDT PRP VBD RB JJ VBN VBG , VBD VBN TO DT NN IN PRP$ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , CD , WP RB VBZ PRP$ NN NN , NN CC NN NN IN JJ , NN CC CD NNS . IN NNP NNP , JJ IN DT NN POS CD CD NNS : CC RB PRP$ NNS : VBP DT NN IN JJ NN NN CC NNS . NNS VBP IN JJ NN , VBN RP RB IN NN , VBZ DT VBG NN IN NN IN NNS IN NNS , CC CD IN DT CD JJ NNS VBP VBN IN NN NN CC NN . 
DT NN VBD PRP RB VBD NNS VBG IN DT NN VBZ VBN '' IN DT NN NN . CC VBP VBN PRP DT NN IN NNS , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN WDT VBZ TO VB WRB NN VBZ CD RB JJ . UH , PRP VBZ IN NNS . '' NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBD IN DT NNP NNP NNP JJ NN , VBD PRP RB VBD PRP JJ TO VB DT NN IN JJ NNS VBD VBG JJ NNS . '' VBP RB VBN PRP VBP IN , '' NNP VBD . CC VB NN CC DT NN RB PRP VBP RP CD NNS DT NN IN DT JJ NN CC PRP VBP RB RB CD NNS RBR . PRP VBP , '' VBD DT NN VBD IN CD NNS IN DT NN . '' '' NNP NNS VBP NNS CC NNS IN NN , DT NN POS JJ NN NN . PRP VBP DT NN TO VB JJR NN NN IN JJR NN IN VBG DT NN VBP JJR IN NNS . 
NNS VBP RB TO NNS , IN DT VBG JJR NN IN NN NN IN NNS , NNP . NNP VBD . CC , PRP VBD , '' NN VBZ RB RB TO VB TO DT JJ NN IN NN , CC TO VB NN NNS CC NNS , CC PRP MD VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN . '' 
NNP NNP NNP VBZ DT NN NN IN NNP CC VBZ VBN NN IN DT NN IN DT NN NN , NN , WDT VBD VBN IN NN IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP . NNP NNP VBZ VBN DT NN TO NNS IN NN NNS , CC PRP VBZ VBN DT NN VBG NNS TO NNS WP VBP VBG VBG DT NN TO PRP$ NNS . CC , PRP VBD , IN NNS IN NNS : NN NNS CC NNS : VBP VBN PRP$ NNS VBG IN PRP MD VB VBG NN TO NNS VBG NNS , PRP$ NN TO VB DT NN RB VBN IN PRP VBD PRP NN . NN VBZ VBN VBN IN DT NN IN DT NNS IN NN , VBG DT NN TO VB DT NN DT JJ NN IN DT NN CC PRP$ NN . NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN MD VB TO JJR NNS VBG NNS . NNS , DT VBD , MD RB VB NN NNS IN DT JJ NN IN PRP MD VB DT NN IN NN NN NNS . CC DT NN , IN DT JJ NN , IN JJS , MD VB JJ . IN NN , NN IN DT NN CC DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN MD VB VBN IN DT NN NN . JJ NNP NN , NNP NNP . NN 
EX VBZ CD NN WDT VBZ RP RB CC RB IN NNS IN NNP CC NNP CC NNP : IN PRP CC RB , PRP VBP IN DT JJ NN , CC NN VBZ NN IN DT NN . IN NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBD NNP NNP POS NNS IN PRP$ NN NNP NN , WDT VBZ DT NN IN NN VBZ RB VBG TO VB . IN PRP$ NNS TO DT NNP NNP NNP NNP TO VB IN NNP CC VB IN NNP , PRP VBP RB NNP IN NNP , WP VBZ RB CD . IN NNS IN NN NNP NN , PRP VBD DT NN IN VBG IN RB JJ NN , VBG CC NN , CC RB PRP VBD DT JJ NNS VBG IN NNP , VBG DT NN IN NN NNS . IN DT NN CD NN , PRP VBD NNP WP PRP VBD IN DT NN IN NN NN . RB IN VBG , PRP VBD PRP WRB DT NN IN NN NNS VBD IN JJ NNS VBN IN NNP . PRP VBD RB , CC PRP VBD RP NNP CC NNP , WDT VBD JJ CC VBG IN PRP . RB , IN PRP$ JJ NN , PRP VBD TO PRP CC VBD . CC PRP VBP DT NN IN JJ NN VBZ JJ CC JJ NNS IN WRB IN NN PRP VBP , '' PRP VBD . IN DT NN , NNP VBD , NN VBZ JJ : WRB RB MD PRP VB DT NNS CC JJ NNS PRP VBP . RB , PRP VBZ DT NN . CC VBP PRP VBZ JJ TO VB PRP VBZ VBN IN NN , '' PRP VBD PRP , VBG RP IN DT NN . PRP VBZ VBN DT NNS . '' RB EX VBP NNS CC JJ NN WRB EX VBD JJ NN NN , PRP VBD . 
CD JJ NN NNS VBP CC CD IN NNP NNP MD RB VB NN . NNP NNP VBD PRP MD VB DT NN POS JJ NN . NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS CC JJ NNS WP VBP DT NNP JJ , VBG TO VB RB JJ NNS RB RB IN JJ . NNP NN VBZ DT NN POS JJ NN IN NN NNS , IN RB CD DT NN . CC VBP RB VB NN VBZ VBG TO VB DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC DT NN IN JJ NNP NN VBZ VBG TO DT NNS , VBG NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP , WP VBP DT NNS MD VB NN NN CC VBP NN TO VB NNS JJ RB . IN DT NNS , FW NNS VBP DT VBZ JJ IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ JJ NN NN IN VBG CC VBG JJ NNS IN NN NN VBD CD NN POS NNS IN DT NN RB . DT NN , NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP , VBZ IN IN DT NN , VBN IN JJ NNP NN , MD VB NN NN , IN PRP MD VB NNS JJ JJR NNS JJ . PRP VBD RB VB IN DT NN VBZ NN TO VB NNS JJ JJR . 
IN CD IN DT RBS JJ NNS IN DT JJ JJ NN CC DT NNP NNP NN NN , JJ JJ NNP NNP MD VB VB DT NN NN CC NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNS IN DT NNS VBD NN . DT NN MD VB VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP , VBG DT $ CD CD NN IN DT NN NN POS NN . DT NN IN DT NN , WDT VBZ VBN TO VB VBN NN , NNS IN NN IN NNS IN NN VBG JJ NNS IN NNS CC NNS IN NN NN CC NN NNS , RB RB IN NNP NNP POS NN IN NN NN NN . DT NN RB VBZ DT JJ CC JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNP , RB IN DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBZ IN NNS WRB JJS NNS VBP NN TO VB NN , VB RB DT JJ NN CC JJ NNS IN WDT NNP VBZ RB VBN . 
NN VBZ RB RB RB RBR IN NNS POS NNS DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP CC JJ NNS NN . NNS VBP VBG TO VB IN NNS WP VBP VBN PRP$ JJ NNP NNS CC NN NN NNS VBN . CC PRP VBP VBN NN NNS IN NNP , DT NNP NN NN WDT VBD VBN TO VB NNS IN NNS POS VBG NNS IN NN VBG DT NNS VBN . CC JJ NN NN IN RB JJ IN DT JJ NNP NNS VBZ RB VBG DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP VBG , PRP VBP RB VB DT . '' TO VB DT JJ NN , NNS VBP VBG TO VB IN PRP MD VB JJR IN DT NN TO NNS . NNP , IN NN , VBZ VBN VBG NNS IN DT NN NNP NNP IN PRP$ NNP NN . RB , DT NNS VBP VBG DT NN IN NN JJ TO NNP NN , CC DT NNS RB RB . NNP NNPS , RB VBN IN NNP , VBZ VBN IN NN IN DT JJ JJ NNS TO VB JJR IN CD NNS . NNP VBZ DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN , VBZ PRP$ NNS JJ JJ NNS CC MD RB VB IN DT JJR NN IN JJ NNP NNP . NNP VBZ VBN TO CD NNS : PRP VBZ VBG DT JJ NN IN NNP IN DT NN NN , DT NN NN , DT JJ NN CC JJ NN NNS ( DT NN TO NN NNS WP VBP IN DT NN WDT VBZ JJ NN IN JJ NN ) . 
IN DT NN WP VBZ VBN TO VB VBG IN NN IN DT NN , NNP NNP NNP MD VB DT NN JJ . CC MD VB JJ , CC PRP VBP VBG VBN RB , '' PRP VBD RB , VBG DT NN IN VBG JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP , WDT VBZ JJ IN DT NNS TO JJ JJ NN NNS IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS , WDT VBD IN CD IN DT NNP IN NNP . NNP NNS MD RB VB VBN TO VB JJ NN , NN CC NN NN IN NNS WP$ JJ NNS VBP VBN , VBG DT NN TO VB PRP . IN NNP CD , NNP NNP VBD PRP MD VB JJ NNS TO VB VBN IN NN IN JJ JJ NN NNS , WDT MD VB NNS TO VB DT NN IN NN NNS WDT MD VB NN IN NNP IN DT JJ NN . DT NN POS NN TO VB RB VBN NN TO VB NNS WDT RB VBP , DT NNS VBP , MD RB VB PRP TO VB NNS IN WDT NNP VBZ DT JJ NNS . 
JJS NNS VBP NNP NNP POS NNS , IN NN , VBP RB VBN IN JJ NN . JJR IN VBG DT JJ NN , PRP VBP , DT JJ NNS RB VB DT NNS . PRP VBZ RB VBN VBN IN NNP VBZ JJR IN DT NN . DT NN , WDT VBZ NNS , VBZ VBN RB IN NNP . DT NN IN NNP , VBD NN NNP , NNS IN NN NN . DT NNS VBP PRP VBZ RB JJ IN NNP VBZ JJ NNS , IN PRP VBZ RB VBN IN NNP VBD DT NN IN DT NNS CC NNP IN DT JJ NNS IN NN IN NN . CC RB VB DT NN IN NNS IN DT , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP . DT JJ NN VBZ VBN VBN IN CD NNS VBN TO JJ NNP NNS CC PRP$ NN TO VB RP NNS . DT NNS , NNS VBD , VBP JJ NNP POS , VBN IN NN POS CC NN , WDT VBP IN CD TO CD NNS , CC NNS , IN NN . DT NN POS NN TO VBG NNS IN NN NNP , VB PRP IN DT JJ NN CC VB PRP IN VBG PRP$ NN . DT NN RB VBZ DT NN IN DT JJ NN . 
RB NNP VBZ PRP VBZ VBN PRP$ NN . NNP NNP NNP , NNP POS JJ JJ NN , VBD NNP IN NNP VBD TO VB NN IN DT JJ NN RB RB IN DT NN IN NNP . DT NN VBZ IN NN IN IN DT NN WDT NNP VBZ VBN , NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBD RB VB WRB DT MD VB VBN , '' PRP VBD . IN DT NN , NNS MD VB JJ TO VB JJ RB WDT NN PRP RB VBP , CC RB IN DT NN NN , IN NNP VBZ IN NNS MD RB VB NN IN DT NN TO NNS , RB IN PRP . NNP NNP POS NNS IN DT NN , DT NN POS NN VBZ JJ , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC NN IN DT NNP IN NNP . '' VBZ IN DT JJ NN TO VB DT RB JJ NN TO NN , '' PRP VBD . NN VBZ JJ . '' NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD NNP IN PRP$ NN . CC VBP VBG DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . NN VBZ VBG NNS TO VB JJ NNS IN NNS . '' 
PRP VBD DT NNS VBD RB JJ IN PRP VBD PRP TO VB . PRP VBD DT NN NN VBG NN IN PRP$ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT NN VBZ NNS IN DT NN VBN TO DT NN . DT NN VBZ CD NN IN DT NN POS NN VBD IN NN , CC RB DT JJ NNS RB RB IN PRP CC PRP MD IN CD NNS . CD NNS RB , DT NN VBZ PRP RB . RB RB VBD DT VBG DT NN NNS VBP JJR IN DT NN , PRP RB VBD PRP VBD RB VB JJ CC IN PRP VBD RBR JJ , NNP NNP VBD . CC , TO PRP$ NN , DT NNS VBD IN RB CD NNS . '' DT NN VBD RB , DT WP VBD DT NNS VBD VBG TO PRP VBG : NN PRP VBP DT JJR IN DT NNS . WP VBD IN PRP , RB . '' '' NNP NNP VBD . NN IN PRP VBD PRP VBD JJ . '' 
JJ NNPS WP VBP JJ IN DT VBG JJ NN NN VBD IN WP VBZ PRP$ NNS VBZ DT JJ NN TO VBG DT JJ NN IN DT NN . IN JJ , CC RB TO VB RB JJ DT NN IN PRP , PRP VBP TO VB DT NN NNPS VBP NN . NNP NNP , DT NNP . NN IN NN NNS , VBD PRP RB VBD TO VBG DT NN IN JJ NN CC NN RB IN NNS IN DT VBG NNS CC NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN . '' NN IN DT NNP VBZ DT NN IN JJ NN NN IN PRP$ NNP NN : JJ JJ NNS VBP VBN JJ DT JJ NN IN NN CC VBD JJR NNS IN RB IN TO VB JJ NN IN DT NN NN . '' NN , IN DT NN , VBZ JJ NN , JJ NN ( IN NN ) CC DT NN IN NN WDT VBZ JJ RB IN NN . PRP MD VB NN TO JJ NNS WDT VBP IN DT NN IN JJ CC JJ NN VBZ RB RBR DT VBN , CC NNS CC DT IN DT JJ NN NN VBP PRP RB . CD NN IN NN CC NN VBZ JJ IN DT JJR NN , WDT VBZ VBG NN RB IN DT NN , IN NN IN VBZ RB IN NN , '' VBZ NNP NNP , NN NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP CC NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNPS . NNP VBZ VBN IN IN CD , CC IN DT NN WDT VBZ NN NNS , PRP VBZ JJ NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT NN , CC PRP$ NN VBZ VBN IN JJ NNS , IN VBG NNS IN VBG NNS IN DT NN TO VB NNP TO , RB , VBG TO VB DT RB NN IN NN NN IN DT JJ NN . CC PRP VBZ NN NN , NN NN CC NN , NN WDT MD VB VBN IN VBG NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ WP PRP MD VB TO VB JJ , '' NNP VBZ . 
RB RB , NNS VBP IN NN NNS VBP DT NN , IN RB DT NN , IN JJ NNP NN , WDT VBZ TO VB NNS POS NNS TO DT JJ NN CC VB NN TO JJ NN IN DT JJ CC NN . IN CD NNS VBD DT NN IN NN TO DT NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNPS IN CD , DT JJ NN VBD VBN . NNP NNP NNP , WP VBD DT NN IN DT NN , VBD IN RB RB IN DT NN NN VBD RB IN NNS RB VBN IN NNP , VBG DT NNS VBD RB VB DT NN . RB , DT NNP NNP NNP VBD NNS IN NN NN CC VBD , IN DT NN IN NNP CD , IN DT NN IN NN NNS JJ VBD RB RB JJ IN DT NN TO VB NNP NNS POS NN TO NN NN , CC IN DT NN MD VB TO VB NNS . DT VBP IN NN NNS RB VBP NN NN NNS . IN NNP , IN NN , JJ NNP NNS VBP IN NN NNS VBP VBG NNS IN NNS CC NNP VBZ JJR JJ IN DT IN JJ NN , CC PRP VBP JJR NN NNS , VBD NNP NNP , DT NN POS JJ JJ NN . 
JJ NNS VBP IN IN NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS IN NN NN NN MD VB DT JJ NN . CC VBP RB VB PRP MD VB RP DT NN IN DT NN NN RB IN IN DT CD NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNS CC NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP . NNP NNP CC NNS VBP RP IN DT VBN NN IN NN NN CC JJ NNS IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBD JJ . JJ NNS RB VBP IN VBG NNS IN CD TO CD NNS , TO VB JJ NNS IN NN , VBZ RB JJ IN JJS NNS . CC DT NN VBZ , NN RB VBZ RB RB IN NN TO VB JJ NNS CC JJ NN . RB , DT NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP NN VBZ VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NNS IN NN NN NN . PRP VBZ JJ IN IN DT NNS RB , JJ NNS MD VB VBG NNS IN NN CC NN WDT VBP VBN TO DT NN POS NN CC JJ NNS . DT NNS MD VB IN JJR NNS , CC DT MD VB NNS RB IN NN IN JJ NNS . 
NNS IN NN VBP RB JJ . IN JJ NNS CC PRP$ NNS VBP IN JJ NNS IN NN CD IN JJ CC JJ , EX VBP RB VBN JJ NNS . PRP$ JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS MD VB TO VB VBN RB VBN IN DT NN VBD DT NN IN DT NNP , VBG IN NNS WP VBP VBN NN IN NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT WP VBP RB . CC DT NN IN NN NN NN VBZ RB RB RB VBN . IN JJS IN DT JJ NN , NNS VBD IN NN NN VBD DT JJ NN IN RB VB TO DT NN IN DT NN RB IN PRP$ NN . JJ NN , PRP VBD , VBD IN DT NN MD VB VBN CC VBN IN PRP MD VB . IN PRP VBD JJ NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP VBD IN DT CD POS TO VB NNS TO VB JJ NNS CC IN DT CD POS TO VB NNS . 
IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD NNS MD RB VB IN JJ NNS VBP VBN . VB JJ IN PRP MD VB DT NNS IN DT JJ NN VBP JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ RB JJ IN DT JJR NN MD VB DT JJR NN CC PRP VBP RB VB RB . '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP CC NNP , VBD IN DT JJ JJ NNS VBD VBG DT JJ NN IN VBG NNS . CC PRP VBD IN DT JJ NNS VBD RB VBN VBN RB RB IN DT VBN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP . '' VBP RB VB NNS VBG DT JJ NNS , '' PRP VBD . NN IN DT NN , DT NN TO VB CC VB NN NNS TO VB VBN IN DT JJ NN , VBG IN NN DT NN POS NN NNS , CC JJ JJ NN . '' NN IN DT NN VBG DT NN VBZ IN DT NN IN VBG DT NNS IN NNS . IN DT JJ NNS VBD VBN IN JJR NNS VBG NNS , IN PRP , DT NN IN NN VBD VBN TO VB JJ . 
RB , JJS NNS VBP RB VB NN NN NNS WRB PRP VBP NNS . CC , VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP , JJ NNS MD VB JJ IN DT NN VBZ PRP$ JJ NNS IN WDT NNS VBP RP NNS CC WRB PRP VB PRP . IN DT NN , JJS NN NNS VBP DT NN TO DT VBN NN CC RB JJR NN NNP . VBZ , DT NN NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBG . CC MD PRP RB VB IN DT NN POS JJS NN TO VB DT JJ NN . '' PRP VBD . JJ NNS IN NN IN VBN DT NN IN CD JJ NNS , CD IN WDT VBZ RB JJ , DT JJR NN VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ VBN . '' VBG NNP IN DT JJ NNS WRB PRP VBD PRP VBD VBN DT NN , NNP NNP , IN JJS NNS , VBD WP TO VB . PRP VBD DT NN NN TO VB PRP$ TO NNP NNP NNP , RB IN PRP VBD IN DT NN RB . PRP VBD IN PRP VBD CD IN DT NNP NN NNS , IN NNP NNP VBD RB , CC IN PRP$ NNS VBD NN NN NNS CC VBG NN . 
DT NN IN NN IN NNP VBD PRP$ NN : CD NNS : CC PRP$ NN VB PRP$ NN NN , RB IN DT RBS JJ NNS IN JJ NN . DT NNS VBP IN PRP$ NN TO VB DT NN IN RB RB VBD RB JJ TO VB IN DT NN NN PRP VBD IN IN PRP$ JJ NNS . PRP$ NN VBD JJ , CC NN IN PRP$ NNS VBD JJ JJ NN . ( DT MD RB VB WRB DT JJ NNS VBG IN DT NN VBP VBN NNS IN DT NN IN NNP POS NN . ) IN VBG JJ NNS IN JJ NNS , NNP VBD JJ NN TO VB PRP$ NN CC RB RB TO VB NN . RB , VBG PRP$ JJ NNS MD VB JJ CC JJ TO VB . VB VBN IN VBG PRP WP PRP VBD TO VB , '' NNP , NNP POS JJ NN , VBD PRP . '' VBN NNS IN VBD PRP$ JJ NNS . '' NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD NNP POS NNS CC VBD IN NNP POS NN VBD JJR TO PRP$ NN NN CC NN IN TO PRP$ NN IN DT NN . 
IN DT NN , JJ NNS WDT VBD RB VBN TO VB JJ NNS IN NN VBD JJR NNS IN NNS . WRB DT NNS VBD VBN NNS , DT NN NNS VBD . CC DT NN IN NNS VBN JJ NN MD VB WRB JJ VBZ NNS VB JJ . VBG TO DT NN VBN IN NNP , NNS , IN DT JJ NN IN NNS , VBP RP DT NN NN . IN JJ JJ NNS , NN VBZ TO VB NN NN WDT VBD TO VB NNS VBP PRP$ NN RB TO DT NN NN CC JJ NN . RB DT NNS CC NNS VBP VBG DT JJ , JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS IN NN NN DT NN CC VB DT NN . '' RB DT RBS JJ NN VBZ VBN DT NN IN IN NN MD VB JJ . IN DT JJ NNPS WP$ NN IN NN VBD JJ CC JJ , PRP MD VB JJ TO VB IN DT NN MD VB RB JJ . 
NNP NNP VBD CD NN IN PRP$ NN NNS IN DT JJ CD NNS RB , VBG TO CD NNS IN CD . IN CD , EX VBZ VBN DT JJ NN IN CD NN IN DT NN , VBG JJ NNS . IN NN , DT NN IN NNS IN DT NN NN NN VBZ VBG . IN CD NNS IN DT NN NN CD DT NN , DT NN IN WDT NN NNS VBP NNS TO VB JJ VBG . JJS NNS VBP NNS IN DT JJS JJ NN IN JJ NN NN IN DT RB VBN : CC RB VBN : NNS VBG IN JJ NNS VBP RB VB DT NN IN VBG IN NN . CC JJR CC JJR NNS VBG JJ CC JJR CC JJR NNS VBG PRP VBZ RB VB DT NN NN TO VB IN RB RB EX MD VB DT JJ NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NNS NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNS , NN NNS CC JJ NNS . 
NNP NNP VBZ PRP VBZ IN NNP . RB JJ IN PRP RB VBZ NNP . IN VBG IN TO VB JJ NNS TO NNS IN NN NN CC TO DT IN JJ NNP . NNS CC JJ NN NNS IN JJ NN NN CC DT NN NN IN NN NN . PRP VBZ IN NNS VBP JJ NNS WDT VB NNP . NNS CC DT NN IN NN VBZ VBN IN VBG NNP . NNS NN NNS CC NNS . PRP VBZ IN JJ NN VBZ PRP RP . PRP$ NN , VBN DT NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBD RB IN DT NN IN NN IN JJ NNS WRB NN NNS VBD JJ NNS . PRP$ NNP . NNS , PRP VBD , VBD DT NN IN JJ NN : DT JJ NN IN VBD VBD WP VBD TO NNP . WRB NNP . NNS VBD , JJ NN VBD . DT VBZ , NNP NNP VBZ , IN DT NN IN VBG NNP . VBZ DT JJ IN NNP . NNS VBP JJ CC JJ . 
IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP IN CD , NNP NNP VBD VBN IN VBG CC VBG NNS CC VBD TO CD NNS TO NN IN NN . DT JJ NN , DT NN VBD PRP$ NN TO NN NN . CC NNP NNP VBD PRP$ JJ NNS CC DT JJ NN . RB , PRP$ NN IN VBG NNS VBD VBN . IN JJ , PRP VBD VBN IN DT RBR JJ NN , NN IN DT VBN NN ( NN ) , CC VBD VBN IN NN IN JJ CD , NN NNS VBP . IN RB , NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NNS WDT VBD TO DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN IN CD . NNP NNP POS JJ NNS VBD IN NN NNS , VBD NNS WP RB VBD IN DT NN NN , NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNS WDT VBD VBN NNP NNP . IN DT JJ CD POS , DT JJ NN IN DT NNS POS NNS VBD IN NNP NNP POS NNS VBD RB $ CD DT NN JJR IN NN IN JJ NNS POS , CC IN PRP VBD VBG NNS RBR NNS IN DT NNS , VBD NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN JJ NNS IN NNP . 
DT JJ NN PRP VBD RB VBN TO VB VBD NN . PRP VBD PRP RP TO PRP$ NNS VBG RP CC VBG NN . CC RB RB IN PRP VBD IN NNS , WDT VBD , RB , CC PRP$ NN VBD . PRP VBD VB NNS IN NN NN , WDT VBZ RB NN PRP VBP TO VB IN IN PRP VBP RB VBD PRP$ NN IN DT NN . PRP VBD DT NNP CC NN : NNP , RB VBD PRP$ NN , CC PRP VBD DT NN IN NN . PRP RB VBD VBG RP NNS IN IN DT , CC PRP VBD VBG RB TO WRB JJ JJR PRP VBD PRP VB . RB PRP VBP VBG DT JJ NN , NN , WDT VBZ DT JJ CC VBZ DT JJR NN IN NN . PRP VBP VBG RB RBR . CC PRP MD VB DT NN NN NN VBZ JJ . DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN WP VBD PRP VBD PRP$ JJ NN , CC PRP VBD PRP VBD RB RB VBN IN DT NN NN TO RB VB IN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . 
DT NN RB VBD IN NNS WP VBP NN NNS RB VBD TO VB JJR NNS IN DT NN . CC NNS IN VBG PRP$ NNS JJ NNS , DT NN NN VBZ JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN JJ NNS CC NN IN NNP NNP JJ NNP IN NNP NNP , WP VBD RB VB IN DT NN . PRP VBZ RB IN VBG , '' PRP$ NN IN NN , '' '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN TO VB JJ NNS . DT NN MD VB DT JJR NN VBG JJ NN IN NNS . CC EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNS TO VB IN JJ NNS VBD JJ NN IN NN . '' NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ JJ NNP IN NNP NNP TO PRP$ NNP POS NN '' ( NNP , CD ) , VBD : NN VBP IN NNS WDT VBP RB CC VB VBN NNS MD VB JJR VBG NNS . PRP VBZ RB IN NNS VBP RBR JJ IN WP NNS NN , IN DT MD VB JJ TO VB RB VBG . PRP VBZ IN WRB NNS NN NNS , PRP RB VBZ EX VBP JJR JJ NNS IN DT NN . '' 
NNP NNP NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN . VBD PRP RB VBD DT NN IN VBG NN , PRP VBD , PRP MD RB RB VB VBG NNS IN DT : PRP MD VB IN DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN . DT JJ NN WP RB VBZ IN NN CC RB VBZ PRP$ JJ NN , PRP VBD VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN IN DT NN IN VBG PRP$ JJ NNS . '' VBD PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN VBD JJ . NNS RB VBD DT NN IN NNS . NNP NN , PRP MD VB , VB PRP$ NNP , PRP RB VBD DT NN , PRP RB VBD DT NN RB . '' DT NNS VBP RB IN RB VBN IN JJ NNS . PRP VBP RB VB VBG NNS NN . '' RB IN PRP$ JJS NNS PRP VBZ RB PDT DT NN IN NNS PRP VBD TO , VB RB IN JJ IN DT CD CC VBZ DT NN TO VB DT JJ NN NN . 
RB RB IN PRP VBP JJ , PRP VBP VBG NNP NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD TO NNS IN DT IN NNP NNP , CD . IN NNP NNP , WP VBZ IN JJ NN , NNP NNP POS NN RB VBZ DT JJ NN TO DT NN NN . CD NN JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD RB IN CD RB VBG NN CC VBD PRP$ NN , NNP NNP , TO VB DT NN . DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS , PRP VBD RB CD NN CC VBD NNP NNP POS NN RB . JJR IN CD NNS RB NNP NNP VBD VBN IN DT NN NN , VBG IN DT JJ VBZ IN DT NN CC VBG DT JJ NN PRP MD VB VBN IN DT NN NN , VBG NN NNS , DT NN CC DT NN . DT NN , DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN NN NN , VBD VBN RB , CC NNP NNP VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN . RB IN VBG JJ NN NNS , NNP MD VB RB IN DT NN NN . CC VBZ DT JJS NN IN RB VBD TO PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
JJ NNS VBP IN DT NN IN NN NNS MD VB TO VB RB IN DT JJ JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN VBN CC VBZ NN . IN DT NN , JJ NN NNS VBP NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS IN RB VBG TO NN NNS . VBG NNS IN RB DT NN CC CD MD VB NNS RBR JJ . CC NNS VBP TO VB NNS RB IN NNS WP VBP NNS . VBP RB VB NN RB VBZ DT JJ IN RB RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
NN POS JJR IN NN PRP VBD VBN IN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NNP POS NN NN IN NN . CC RB VBP DT NN VBZ VBG DT NN NN TO VB IN CC VB RP DT NN . '' NNP NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN NN IN NN IN NNP NNP , VBD DT NN VBD VBG RB TO JJ NNS RB . '' DT NNP NNS VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , WDT VBZ DT JJ NN VBD IN DT NNS IN NNS POS NNS . PRP VBD DT NN TO DT NN NN NN , CC NN , WDT VBZ RB VBN IN NN NNS . DT JJ VBZ DT NN NN TO VB DT NN VBZ PRP MD RB VB . DT NN VBN IN DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN NNS , IN DT NNS VBD IN VBG CD WDT VBD VBN VBD RB VBN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN VBD VBN VBN IN DT VBN JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN NN , CC DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNP POS NNS , DT IN JJ JJ NNP POS , RB IN DT RBR JJ JJ NN . NNS IN JJ NNP POS VBP RB VB NN , CC RB VBP TO VB DT NN VBG PRP IN DT NN . DT JJ NN TO VB IN DT NN VBZ JJ IN PRP MD VB IN JJ NNS . 
NNP NNP VBD IN EX VBP NNS IN NN IN NN , CC DT NN VBZ CD IN CD , CC NNS WDT VBP RB VB IN NN NN NN , CC DT NN VBZ CD IN CD . '' WDT VBZ DT NN TO VB DT NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT NN VBZ DT NN IN NN . NNP NN NN , WDT MD RB CC RB VB NN NNS WDT VBP VBN IN JJ NNS , VBZ VBG IN . CC IN DT NNS VBP VBG PRP , DT NN IN PRP CC NNS WDT VBP RB MD VB DT NN . NNP NNS MD VB PRP$ NNS TO NN DT NN , CC JJS VBP RB RB VBP TO VB , CC JJS NNS VBP RB VB PRP RB . NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , DT VBG JJ NN VBG IN NN NN , VBZ IN , VBN IN NNS PRP VBZ VBN , IN DT CD CD NNS VBN IN DT NNP NNPS DT NN , IN CD NN IN NNS , RB JJ NNS , WDT MD RB VB VBN IN IN VBG JJ NN NN . 
IN PRP VBZ RP , DT NNS VBP VBN DT JJ NN RB RB IN DT JJS NN : IN CC WRB TO VB TO JJ NN NN : CC RB IN WP VBZ , IN JJ NN , DT JJ CD . RB , PRP MD RB VB DT JJ . DT JJ VBP VBN TO VB DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS , DT NNS WP VBP RP , RB , TO VB CC WP$ NNS VBP VBN , NN . CC PRP VBZ JJ TO VB IN PRP$ NNS . IN JJR IN NNS IN DT JJ NN RB DT NN IN NNS , RB IN JJ NNS CC NNP . POS , PRP$ NN VBZ RB JJ CC JJ . CC DT NN IN NNS NNS VBG . NNP VBZ VBD DT NN IN $ CD , IN IN NN , IN NN NNS IN CD CC $ CD IN CD , CC VBP VBG $ CD IN CD , VBG TO DT NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN . DT NN VBG JJ NNS IN JJ NNS RB VBZ JJR NNS , IN DT NN IN NNS , VBP PRP$ JJ NNS CC PRP$ JJ NNP NNP NN CC NN IN NN . DT JJS VBP IN DT RBS JJ : DT VBN CD NN IN DT CD CC JJR VBP DT NN NN NN . 
DT NN NN VBZ , NNP NNP NNP VBZ IN NNS IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN VBN IN DT JJ NN . CD MD PRP VB DT NNS PRP VBP TO VB . '' VBD NNP NNP , NNP IN NNP VBP DT NN '' IN DT NNP IN NNP . NNS VBP VBN RB JJ , CC RB JJ , IN NNP NNP VBZ PRP VBZ DT NN POS NNP NN IN DT NN NN , VBG DT JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN VBG WDT MD RB VB . CC PRP RB MD RB . IN JJ JJ NNS , VBG IN NN NN NNS CC NNS IN DT JJ NN , DT NN VBZ RB RBR VBG VBN . IN VBG RB IN NN , VBG NN NNS TO VB JJR NNS , VBG NNS NNS CC VBG VBG NN TO VB RP DT JJ NNS RB , JJ JJ NNS VBP RB VBN VBG RB IN NNS , VBG PRP JJR IN NNS TO VB IN NN . 
JJ NNS VBP VBN TO VB RB JJ JJ NN NNS , RB VBG NNS IN DT , CC VBG DT NNS RB . CC VBP VBG TO VB DT NN RB , RB VBN NNS IN NNP NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP , NNP , WDT VBZ JJ NNS IN JJ JJ NNS . CC DT JJ NN NN NNS VBD RB VBN TO VB IN JJ NN , NNS VBD . NNP , NNP NNP VBD , PRP VBD NNS VBG TO NNS IN NNS IN WP PRP MD VB NNP TO VB . PRP VBD IN JJ NNS TO VB IN NNS . CD NN IN DT NN IN NNS VBG , WP VBP PRP VBG . WP VBP PRP IN TO . '' NNP NNP VBD . CC PRP VBG TO VB DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN . '' '' PRP VBD NNS IN DT JJ NN NN VBD PRP IN IN PRP MD VB IN NNP CC DT JJ NN VBN IN IN PRP VBD JJ IN NNP POS NN IN NNP POS NNS . 
DT NN VBD VBN IN NNS IN DT NN IN NNS . IN DT NNP NNS VBP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , DT JJ NNS , CC NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , WP VBP NNS . DT JJ NN IN NNS CC DT NN POS NN MD VB VBN IN NN . NNP IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ CC JJ NN NNS , DT VBN IN DT NN CC NNS VBD RB , JJS IN DT NN IN DT NNS VBD VBN VBN RB IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , NNS , JJ NNS CC JJ NNS . VBG TO DT NN , DT NNP NN VBZ VBN JJ NN IN JJ NN , VBN IN JJS CD NN IN NN NN , VBD JJ NNS IN DT NNS IN NN IN NN NNS CC VBN NN IN NN NN . DT NN VBZ IN DT NN RB VBD NNS IN NNS IN NN TO VB JJ NN NNS , VBD IN JJ NNS CD NN IN NNS NN CC VBN JJ JJ NNS IN JJ NNS TO JJ NN NNS . 
CC DT NN VBZ JJ NN TO DT JJ NN IN WRB TO VB NN , VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ IN DT NN IN NN CC VBG NNS . DT CD NNS IN DT NN VBD NNP VBN DT JJ CC VBD IN PRP$ NN , '' PRP VBD . WDT VBD NN IN DT NN IN CD , '' PRP VBD . CC VBP VBN NN IN JJ IN NNS VBP VBG PRP : PRP VBP PRP VBP JJR DT NNS . '' DT NN NNS VBP VBN JJ NNS TO DT NN IN NN , DT RBS JJ IN WDT , NNP NNP VBD , VBZ VBN DT NN IN JJ NN NNS . IN DT CD NN , RB , DT NN VBZ VBN VBN IN JJS JJ JJ NNS , WDT RB VBD NNS IN VBG NNS . IN PRP MD VB PRP VBP JJ , DT NNS MD RB VB VBN , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NNS PRP VBP IN NNS VBP TO VB JJR JJ CC VBP JJR JJ NNS . PRP VBP RBR JJ IN DT NN IN CD TO VB JJ NNS . '' 
NNP VBZ DT NN IN DT JJ NNS WP VBP VBN NN IN PRP$ NNS , JJS IN PRP JJ NNS IN JJ NN NNS , DT NN IN PRP JJ NNS . CC DT NNS , '' NNP VBD , '' MD VB TO DT JJ NN CC RB IN , CC PRP VBD RBR IN VBG DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS . PRP VBP PRP VBZ RB VBN IN PRP TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ NNS . '' CC RB , PRP VBD VBG NNS RB IN DT NNS IN NNS WP VBP VBN : NNS , NNS , JJ NNS : IN JJ IN DT NNS VBD DT NN , CC WDT CD MD VB PRP , TO VB DT NN WDT MD VB VBG DT JJ RB RB JJ . NNP VBD PRP$ NN CC VBD IN IN DT NN IN DT NN PRP VBZ WP VBD RB VBN IN DT NN NN , CC WP , IN PRP RB VBD RB , VBD DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN . IN JJ , PRP MD RB VB WRB DT VBD VBG . CC NN MD RB VB PRP , '' PRP VBD . IN PRP VBZ DT NN IN DT NN , DT NNS VBN TO PRP . '' WDT MD VB VBN RB IN DT NN , PRP VBD . UH , PRP VBD VBN , '' VBD NNP , WP RB VBD : CC DT VBD RP TO VB DT NN IN DT NN : DT NN VBD DT JJ NN IN WP DT NN MD VB . '' WDT VBZ , PRP VBD DT JJ , CC VBD DT NNS CC NNS WDT VBD VBN PRP$ NN TO DT NNS WP VBD TO VB PRP$ NN IN DT JJ NN . PRP VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN , CC RB NNP VBD RB VB RB JJ IN DT , VBD RB VB TO VB IN IN DT NN VBD JJ CC RB IN NN NN , RB DT JJS TO VB PRP VBD VBN CC DT NN IN PRP VBZ . CC PRP$ NNS VB PRP CC PRP VBP RB , CC IN PRP VBP RB , RB VBG IN DT NN IN VBG DT NN VBZ RB . PRP VBZ RB DT NN IN JJ NN : VBG DT JJ VBG WP MD NN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN : CC PRP MD RB VB . 
RB , RB VBZ DT JJ NN : IN DT NNP NN NN NNS VBP RB VBN TO VB DT NN NN DT NN , JJR IN CD NN RB VBP . VBG TO NN NNS , JJ NNS CC NNS RB VBP RB VB DT NN TO WDT PRP$ JJ NN IN NN VBZ DT NN : CC RB JJ : IN PRP$ NNS . IN JJ NNS , JJ JJ NN NNS , VBG DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP , DT NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP VBP VBN NNS VBN IN RB VBG DT NN NN . DT JJ NNS VBP VBN IN VBG JJ NNS NN IN RB DT NN NN NNS . JJS JJ NNS , VBG DT NNP , VB NN IN DT CC VBP RB IN NNS CC JJ JJ NNS MD VB JJR NN IN VBG NNS CC IN VBG DT NN RBR JJ IN DT NN , RB VBG PRP JJ . PDT DT NNS VBP IN NNS POS NNS VBP IN NN . 
NNP NNP VBD NN IN PRP VBD DT NN IN DT JJ , JJ NN NN . NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN NNP NNP , VBN IN NNP , NNP , RB VBD DT NN VBD VBG PDT DT JJ NN POS NNS . DT JJ CD JJ NN NN NNS , NNP CC NNP NNP NNP , VBD RB IN PRP VBD VBG DT NN NN NN . CC VBP TO VB IN PRP CC VB IN PRP DT RBR , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP , WDT VBZ DT NN POS JJS NN IN NNS . NNP NNP RB VBD IN NNP VBZ IN JJ NNS IN DT NN NN NN WRB DT JJ NN NN NNS . CC JJ NNS VBD IN PDT DT NN VBN IN NN NNS TO VB IN DT NN VBN , IN JJ NNS MD VB IN VB RBR RB . IN PRP VBP DT NN IN DT NN , PRP VBZ JJ RB TO VB IN DT NNS IN DT NN RB IN VBG IN DT JJR NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP WP VBD DT NNP NN . 
WRB JJ NNS MD VB NN VBZ JJ . IN DT NN VBD RB , DT NNS RB VBP PRP$ NNS IN IN CD NNS . NNP NNP VBD DT NNS IN DT NN MD VB VBN , VBG NN IN IN DT NN VBZ TO VB JJ . CC EX MD RB RB VB DT NN NN . RB JJ VBZ IN DT NN WP VBZ VBN NN IN CD NNS MD VB IN NN . NNP RB VBG RB IN NN MD RB VB PRP , NNS VBP . CC EX VBP DT NNS RB IN NNS WP VBD VBG JJ CD NNS RB CC JJR . WP VBZ VBG TO VB CD IN DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP RB VB JJ NN NN , '' PRP VBD , '' IN NN NN NN VBZ RB , EX VBZ DT NN TO VB NNS MD RB VB . '' DT NN TO VB VBN VBZ IN NN VBZ DT JJS IN DT NN NNS . CD JJ NN NNS VBP IN DT NN : NN , WDT NNP VBZ IN NNP , CC NN , WDT NNP VBZ IN NNP . NNS VBP IN NN TO VB PRP$ NN IN VBG IN NN NN NNS . 
NNP NNP VBD IN DT JJ NN IN NNS JJ IN NN NN NNS , CC VBD CD IN DT JJR JJ NNS IN DT NNP IN DT CD IN DT NNP NNP VBZ . RB , PRP VBD TO VB JJ NN IN NNS IN NNS . EX VBP DT NN IN NNS WP VBP RB VB DT NNS , CC VBP RB RB TO NN IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP . WP VBZ WP DT JJ NNS VBP VBN TO VB : VB CC VB NNS TO VB NNS DT JJ NN . PRP MD VB PRP VBP VBG RB RB , CC WRB PRP RB VB PRP DT NNS , PRP VBZ JJ IN PRP VBP RB . '' NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , WDT VBZ PRP JJ NN NN '' CC VBD RB VBN JJ NN NNS IN JJ NN NNS IN DT NN NN NN IN CD , VBD RB IN DT JJ NN IN NNS JJ IN DT IN DT NNP NNP VBZ . DT NN VBD TO VB JJ NN CD NNS IN IN CD NNS VBG NN NN CC NN NN NNS . 
RB , IN PDT DT , VBG DT NN TO VB CC RB VBP IN JJ NN NN : NNP : PRP RB MD RB VB VBG TO WRB PRP VBP TO VB IN IN PRP$ NN CC NN IN NN . NNP NNP NNP , NNP , NNP CD , CD TO DT NN : NNP NNP POS NN IN JJ NN NN VBZ JJ IN . IN PRP VBP IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , NNP , NNP , NNP , NNP , NNP CC NNS VBP PRP IN PRP$ JJ NNS TO VB DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS CC JJR . DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN VBZ , IN NNP NNP VBD , DT VBG NN IN NN NNS . RB WRB PRP$ NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN VBZ IN NN . PRP RB VBD DT NN NN NN RB RB IN DT NN . NNP NNP NNP , NNP , NNP CD , CD 
PRP RB VBP RB RB : VBG TO DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WDT VBZ NN IN JJ JJ NN , DT NN IN JJ NN NN NNS VBZ VBN IN JJR IN DT JJ IN DT JJ NN . CC JJS IN DT VBG VBP RB JJR . IN DT JJ NN , DT NN IN NNS VBG IN NN NN JJ VBZ VBN . CD NNS VBP TO JJ NN , VBG NN POS NN VBZ RB WP PRP VBP TO VB . VB , IN DT NN PRP VBP , PRP VBP VBN PRP$ NNS : PRP MD RB VB RB IN NN CC DT . '' WDT VBZ DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NN CC DT NN IN DT RBS RB VBN NN IN JJ NN NN . WP VBD . WRB VBP RB VB NNS VBP TO VB PRP VBZ NN '' RB . CC PRP VBZ RB RB NNS : NNS , RB DT IN NN , VBP VBG IN PRP$ NNS , RB VBG TO VB NN NNS CC NNS RB . VBZ DT RB DT NN NN . CC MD PRP VB IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ IN IN NN CC IN DT NN VBZ VBN TO VB DT NN IN NNP NNP . 
IN RB , JJS NNS IN NNP CC DT JJ NNS MD VB NN IN NN IN JJ NN NNS WDT VBP DT NNS IN DT NN POS NN . CC DT NNS MD VB , CC NNP NNP VBZ PRP VBZ RB VB VBG DT NN RB IN NNS VBG VBN IN PRP . IN DT NNP NNPS , NNS WP VBP IN JJ NNS RB VBP TO VB DT NN VBG VBN IN PRP VBZ VBN . IN DT , PRP MD VB PRP CC , IN PRP MD RB VB PRP , VB TO JJ NNS IN JJS NNS VBP TO VB NNS WP MD RB VB VB NNS PRP VBP . CC IN DT NN IN NNP NNS , WDT NNS VBP JJ CC IN JJ NN TO NNS IN JJ NNS , EX VBZ DT NN NN IN WP TO VB RB , RB WRB NNS VBP RB VBG . CC RB WRB NNS NN PRP$ NNS IN JJ NNS , PRP VBP RB TO VB RP DT NN TO VB DT NNS RB TO VB NNS IN DT JJ NN NNS . 
DT NNP . VBZ RB VBG TO VB IN NN DT NN RB VBN IN JJ CD , IN NNP NNP POS NN , WDT MD VB NNS IN JJ NNS TO VB VBN IN NN IN JJ VBG WRB PRP VBZ JJ CC JJ TO VB NNS IN NNS . CC DT NN VBZ JJ TO VB PRP$ NNS RB JJ . RB IN DT NN VBZ RB IN DT NN IN DT NN NN , DT JJ NN IN NN NN , DT NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBZ VBN JJ TO VB PRP$ NN IN PRP$ NN VBZ VBN NNP . NN NNS . RBR DT NN , NNP VBD IN DT NN , WDT MD VB NN IN JJ NNS . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP . POS NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP , VBD DT NN VBD VBN JJ NNS IN . WRB NNS IN NN CC NNP VBD IN JJR NN TO VB NNS , DT NNP . VBN NNS TO VB NN IN NNS IN JJ NNS CC VBN IN DT JJ NNS TO VB VBN JJ . 
NNS VBP RB VBN IN JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD , TO VB NNS IN VBG WP VBZ VBG DT JJ NN . RB , PRP VBD , NNS MD VB RP VBG WP PRP VBP TO VB . IN NN , PRP MD VB NNS IN NNS WP VBP VBG DT JJ NN IN RB VBG RB JJ NN TO JJ NNS IN NNS IN PRP VBP VBP VBG VBN JJ . NNS , PRP VBD , WP VBP VBN PRP VBP RB VBG VBN MD VB DT NN , RB VBG NN NNS . NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN IN NN . IN CC IN , JJ NNS CC NNS VBD IN NN NNS VBD RB JJ IN , IN NN , CD NN IN NNS MD VB RB IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN VBD JJ . DT NNS VBD VBG WRB DT NN VBD IN . DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBD TO VB TO JJ NNS . CC DT NNS VBD PRP TO JJ NNS . PRP VBD VBG RB DT NN , RB VBG TO DT JJ NN . PRP VBD VBN IN DT NNP NN , NNP NNP , WP VBD VBN JJ IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC IN CD VBD DT NN , '' NNP NNP '' IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP . 
NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP VBD NN IN VBG JJ NN CC JJ NN IN NNS IN JJ NN NNS VBD TO VB JJ . DT NN VBZ DT JJ IN DT NNP NNPS TO VB JJ NNS IN NNS . IN CD NNS VBN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NN NNS IN DT NN POS NNP NNP NNP NN IN DT JJ CD NNS TO VB DT NN VBP VBN DT JJ NNS . DT NN VBN JJ NN NNS IN JJ NN CC JJ NNS : DT NN VBZ DT NN IN RB CD NNS : RB NN NNS , WDT VBP DT JJ TO VB IN JJ NN NNS . NN VBD RB DT NN WDT VBD RP TO VB DT NN IN JJ NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP POS NNP IN NNP . '' VBD VBG TO VB IN PRP VBD JJ TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN CC IN PRP VBD RB JJ TO VB RB . CC PRP VBP VBN IN PRP VBZ . '' 
NN POS JJR IN NN PRP VBD VBN IN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NNP POS NN NN IN NN . CC RB VBP DT NN VBZ VBG DT NN NN TO VB IN CC VB RP DT NN . '' NNP NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN NN IN NN IN NNP NNP , VBD DT NN VBD VBG RB TO JJ NNS RB . '' DT NNP NNS VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , WDT VBZ DT JJ NN VBD IN DT NNS IN NNS POS NNS . PRP VBD DT NN TO DT NN NN NN , CC NN , WDT VBZ RB VBN IN NN NNS . DT JJ VBZ DT NN NN TO VB DT NN VBZ PRP MD RB VB . DT NN VBN IN DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN NNS , IN DT NNS VBD IN VBG CD WDT VBD VBN VBD RB VBN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN VBD VBN VBN IN DT VBN JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN NN , CC DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNP POS NNS , DT IN JJ JJ NNP POS , RB IN DT RBR JJ JJ NN . NNS IN JJ NNP POS VBP RB VB NN , CC RB VBP TO VB DT NN VBG PRP IN DT NN . DT JJ NN TO VB IN DT NN VBZ JJ IN PRP MD VB IN JJ NNS . 
CC VBZ DT NN : DT JJ NN VBN IN RB JJ NNS : DT JJS NN NN IN NN . PRP VBZ RB RB JJ , IN NNP NNP MD VB DT JJ TO VB RP . VBG TO NNS VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , CD TO CD NN IN NN NNS VBN IN DT JJ NN VBD VBN IN DT NN NN . CC RB IN NNP NNP POS JJ NNS VBP DT JJ NN POS JJ NN , DT NNS VBP VBN VBG JJ NNS : JJ NN , NN CC NNP . NN ( CC , IN DT NNS VBP PRP , NNP . ) : TO VB IN NN NNS IN DT NNS . VBP DT JJ NNS RB . RB RB , VBG TO NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , WP VBZ VBG DT JJ NN IN NNP . POS JJ NNS IN NN NN NNS . RB , NNP NNP VBZ RB VBN VBG NN NNS IN JJ NNS VBG DT JJ NN , VBG DT WP VBP TO VB JJ NN . PRP VBZ PRP RB TO VB DT NN . 
IN DT NN IN DT NN IN NN POS NN IN DT NN NNP , NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNS POS NN IN NNP , CC PRP$ NNS VBP DT NN IN CD IN DT NNS , CD NNS CC CD NNS IN NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN . CD NNS IN DT NN , DT NNS VBD , DT NNS VBD RB , VBG IN DT JJ NNS . CD NNS RB , PRP$ JJ NNS VBD JJ . JJ NNS VBN IN NNP WP VBP RB VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN NN IN NNS CC NN IN PRP$ JJ NN . IN DT NN , DT NNS VBP PRP VBP RB RB VBN DT JJ NN , WP VBD DT NN JJ IN DT NN . IN DT NN NN , NNP NNP VBD NN IN PRP VBD RB VBN CD JJR NNS CC VBZ VBG TO VB IN DT NN VBN IN PRP RB RB . 
DT NNS VBD JJ TO VB RB IN DT NNP IN IN PRP$ NN , RB VBD TO VB DT NNP '' NNS CC NN TO VB JJ NN IN DT NNS . IN NN , DT JJ NNS IN DT NN , DT WP VBD RB VB DT NN , VBD TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ CD TO CD NNS IN NN . PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN NNS , CC IN DT JJ NN RB VBD RB JJ IN DT JJ NN IN NN , IN VBN IN JJ NN IN NN . CD NN VBZ IN DT RB JJ NN IN CD NN IN DT JJ NN MD VB VBG RB JJ NNS , RB VBG NN WDT MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN . CC , RB , DT NN VBD VBN IN RB JJ NN IN PRP VBD CD NN IN DT NN NN POS NNS . DT NN IN CD NN IN NN CC NN IN DT VBZ IN DT JJ NN TO VB NNP NN MD VB TO VB IN DT NN TO VB DT CD NNS IN NNS IN VBG CD CC VBG DT JJ . 
JJ JJ NN NN NNS MD RB VB JJ TO VB DT NN POS NN IN NN CC RB VB RBR JJ , JJR JJ CC RBR JJ IN VBG NNS . PRP VBP RB JJ NNS , CC IN NN , NN NNS VBP RB JJ , VBG RP IN NN TO VB JJ NNS IN NNS POS NN . CD NN WDT VBZ VBN NN IN NNS VBZ DT NN IN NNS VBN NN NNS , DT NN IN NN NN . DT VBP IN DT NNS MD VB NN , DT RBS JJ NN IN VBG DT NN IN NN NN . DT NN NNS VBP RB VBN IN NN IN JJ NNS IN JJ CC JJ NN . IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNS VBD NNS IN DT JJ NN VBG NN , DT NN NN , TO VB . DT NN , VBG JJR IN CD NNS WP VBD NN NN CC VBD VBN NN CC NN ( IN VBN ) , VBD DT CD NN NN IN DT NN IN NN IN DT VBG DT NN NN VBN IN DT VBG NN . 
CD CD NN WDT VBZ JJ NN CC NNP VBD NN IN JJ CD NNS RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . CD NNS IN PRP$ NN CC CD VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN IN PRP$ NN NN . '' NNP , DT NN NN NN , NNS IN IN DT JJ NN VBD IN NN IN DT NN IN IN CD NN IN NN NNS CC VBZ VBN RB TO NNS IN DT NN NN . RB , JJ NN NNS VBP VBG NNS TO VB DT NN IN VBZ JJ NN NN VBD DT JJ NN NN NN , CC NNP . JJ NNS MD VB IN NN , NN CC JJ NNS WDT VBP JJ NNS , CC RB IN DT NN , NN CC JJ NNS WDT VBP RB . RB , DT NNS VBP , NNS MD RB VB JJ TO VB RB DT NN IN DT NN DT NN VBD IN DT NN RB VBZ VB NN NN . 
CC DT JJ NN NNS VBP RB JJ NN : DT NNS , RB RBR JJ , JJ NN NNS CC JJ NN NNS RP DT NNS . CC DT JJ NN VBZ JJ . DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN VBZ VBN JJ NNS , IN VBG NNS , RB VBG TO VB , IN VBG JJ NN TO DT NNP . CC WRB DT NNS IN PRP VBP JJ , JJ IN NNS IN DT NN IN NN NNS , JJ NNS CC NN NN IN DT NNS , DT NN RB VBZ NN . PRP VBZ VBN RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD DT NNP NN IN NNS POS JJ NN NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN NNS , VBD IN NNP NNP JJ NN , WP RB VBG DT NN IN PRP$ NNS CC PRP$ NNS IN NNP CD VBZ RB JJ TO VB PRP VB . '' JJ NNS , VBG TO VB PRP$ NNS , TO VB DT NN IN NN CC NN , VBP VBN JJ NNS IN DT JJ JJ NNS . 
RB DT NN RB JJ IN NN , DT NN NN TO DT JJ NN , VBZ JJ . DT NNS VBP IN PRP VBZ . NNS VBP IN PRP VBZ NN CC NN DT JJ NN . NNP NN VBZ IN RB JJ NNS IN NN MD VB JJ IN DT NNS , RB DT NN IN DT NN POS JJ NNS . '' JJ NNS VBP PRP VB IN NN IN NN NNS . '' NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN CC NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD . CC IN JJ . VBP PRP VB PRP RB . JJ PRP VBP . PRP VBZ DT RB JJ , JJ NN , WDT DT NN IN NNS VBP IN . CC PRP RB VBZ RB VB DT JJ NNS . '' NNP NNP VBD IN WRB PRP VBD DT NN CD NNS RB EX VBD DT NN IN NN NN . '' PRP VBZ RB CD IN DT NNS WRB EX VBD RB JJ VBN , '' PRP VBD . CC EX VBD RB JJ NNS , CC RB VBD RB DT NN IN WP TO VB . '' 
IN DT JJ NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN , '' VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBZ VBG IN NNS VBD NN IN NN NN IN DT NNS . '' DT NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN NN VBN IN NNS IN DT NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP IN DT NN IN DT NN NN NNS . NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN NNP , WRB DT NNP NNP VBD IN DT NNS IN NNS WDT VBD VBN NN TO DT NN IN NN VBD VBN NN NN , DT JJ NN NN . DT NN VBD RB IN DT JJ NN WDT MD VB IN DT NNS IN NN CC NN NNS IN NN , NN CC JJ NNS . NNP NNP RB VBD DT NN TO VB DT NN IN NN , CC DT NN VBZ RB VBN VBN . NN VBN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP WP$ NNS VBP DT IN DT NN NN NNS , VBZ IN NNS TO DT VBN CD TO CD JJ NNS WP DT VBP DT NN CC VBP IN JJ NN IN VBG PRP . IN DT NN , JJ NNS IN DT NN NNS MD VB IN $ CD CD TO $ CD CD DT NN , NNS VBD . 
CC IN JJ NNS , NN NN VBZ VBN IN DT NNP IN DT JJ NN , NNS VBD , IN JJ CC JJ NNS TO VB NNS IN NN CC NN NNS . JJ NNS RB VBP NNS TO VB DT NN NN TO JJ VB DT NN , RB RB IN DT NNS VBP PRP VBZ RB , PRP VBP TO VB PRP TO VB PRP . '' DT JJ CD NNS , DT NN IN NN NNS JJ IN DT NNP VBZ VBN : PRP VBZ CD CC VBG , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT IN DT JJR NNS , PRP VBD , JJ NNS IN DT NN IN WRB TO VB . NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP , DT NNP NN NN , VBD NN TO WP VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN : DT NN , NN CC NNS VBN IN DT NN NN TO VB VBN RP IN NN . JJ NN VBZ IN DT NN MD VB DT NN IN RB VBG RB IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT JJ NN . EX VBZ DT JJ IN PRP , DT JJ NNS , DT JJ NNS . PDT DT VBZ VBZ DT NN VBN IN DT JJ NN , CC RB VBN IN NN RB VBN IN DT NN ( DT JJ NNS CC DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . ) '' 
VBZ DT JJ NN VBP DT JJ NN CC JJ NN . DT NNS POS NN VBZ NN IN VBG RB TO NNS . '' MD RB VB IN DT NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP VBZ RB VB DT JJ NN PRP VBP IN NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN CC NN NN IN DT NNP NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP . '' VBP VBN , RB , IN DT JJ NN VBZ JJ TO VBG DT NNS IN DT NN CC VBD IN DT NNS MD VB VBG JJ NN . '' JJ NNS VBP VBD DT RB JJ NN VBG RP WRB DT NN VBZ RB IN PRP VBP DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC EX VBZ DT NN TO VB RB IN DT JJ NNS , TO VB NNS WRB DT NNS MD RB VB TO PRP$ NNS . '' NNPS VBP DT JJ JJ NN . CD NN VBZ VBN PRP$ NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , CC PRP MD RB VB VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS CC JJ NNS , CC PRP VBP JJ NN MD VB RB RB JJ IN RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN IN NNP POS NNP CC NNP POS NNP IN NNP CC DT JJ NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP . NNS VBP RB VB DT NN MD VB RB RB , CC PRP VBP PRP MD VB VBN RBR RB IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN . '' 
NNS RB JJ JJ NNS IN NN IN DT NN POS NN . '' IN DT NN , PRP VBP JJ . DT NN , RB DT NN , VBZ DT JJ NNS IN NN , IN VBN IN JJ NNS IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP . JJ NN NNS VBP DT NN POS NN , VB WRB TO VB CC VB WRB CC WRB DT NN VBD , VBG DT NNS IN VBG PRP JJ NN . IN PRP VBZ RB JJ IN WRB DT NN NN VBZ VBN , DT NN VBZ DT NN IN NN . DT NN IN NN VBZ VBN IN JJ NN CC DT VBG NN IN NN MD VB VBG NNS IN DT NN , DT JJ NN NN RB VBN IN NN NN . NNS VBP PRP VBP IN DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN VBG RB RB NNS , CC RB PRP$ NN , DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN . IN JJ NNS , DT NN RB VBZ VB RP DT NN NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN . 
NNS , IN DT CD NNP NNP NNP NNP VBZ , VBP JJ NNS WDT VBP DT NN CC VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBZ IN NN JJ . JJ NN VBP JJ IN NNS IN NNP NNP WP VBP VBN JJ CC JJ NN NNS , CC DT NNS MD VB JJ NN . NNS MD RB VB DT NNS , CC PRP VBZ VBN IN NNS IN NNPS MD RB VB IN DT $ CD NNS . CC DT NN NN WP VBD DT NN VBD WRB JJ PRP MD VB IN PRP$ NN TO VB CD , VBN PRP$ NN CC JJ NN . PRP VBZ NN TO VB DT NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ IN DT JJ NN WP VBZ VBG TO VB , DT NN VBD , CC WP IN DT JJ VBN IN NN NN CC NN IN DT NN NN . DT NN MD VB DT RBS , PRP VBD , CC MD RB VB DT JJS TO VB NN IN NNS IN JJ NNS . 
NNS VBP VBG TO VB DT NN . JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD PRP$ JJ NN , NNP , IN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , WRB PRP VBD VBN PRP$ DT NN IN WRB PRP VBD IN DT JJ NN . NNP NNP , WP VBZ NNS IN DT NNP NNP NN NN , VBD PRP RB VBD DT NN TO VB PRP$ NN IN IN NN . CC PRP VBP NN RB , PRP VBP PRP MD VB VBN NN IN , '' PRP VBD . NNS VBP RB VBN DT NN . IN DT JJ JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD , PRP VBZ VBN VBN IN DT NN IN NNP NNP NN NNS . PRP RB VBD DT NN TO VB PRP$ NN . JJ NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD TO VB DT NN IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD , '' PRP VBD PRP VBD VBG TO VB DT NNS TO VB PRP . '' IN CD NNS RB IN NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN NN WP NNS IN NNP NNP NNP , VBZ VBG RB DT JJ NN . IN NNP , PRP VBD VBG CD NN DT NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP , WRB DT JJ NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP : NN IN DT $ CD CD NNS NN NN : VBZ VBN VBN IN PRP IN DT NN POS NN , NNP NNP NNP . DT NN RB VBD CD IN NNP NNP POS NNS IN NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN . 
NNS WP VBP JJ NNS IN CD NNS VBP CD NNS DT NN IN VBG JJ NN NN , DT NN WDT VBZ CD CD NNPS , NNS VBP . JJ NN NN VBZ DT VBG NN IN NN IN DT NN , CC DT NNS VBP PRP$ NNS MD VB NNS VB NNS WDT VBP RBS JJ TO VB NNS CC TO VB NNS IN JJ NN RB RB TO VB DT NN . IN DT NN VBN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP VBD IN DT NN NNS MD VB NNS TO DT NN . DT NNS VBD IN CD NNS IN JJ NN NN , VBG PRP IN CD NNS WP VBD JJ IN JJ NNS , VBG NN , CC WP VBD RB VB DT NN . PRP VBD IN PRP$ NNS IN DT NNS VBD JJ . JJ NNS VBD DT NNS VBD IN DT JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN IN NN IN WDT NNS VBP DT NN POS JJ NNS TO VB PRP VB NN . 
CC PRP VBD DT NNP NN , IN VBN IN RBR JJ NNS IN DT VBG NN , MD RB VB RB JJR IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN NN . PRP VBD IN PRP$ NNS MD VB JJ IN EX VBD DT NN NN , CC IN IN DT NN IN DT NN , PRP VBZ RB JJ IN DT JJ NNS MD VB DT NNS IN NN . '' NNP NNP POS NNS VB DT NN IN IN DT NN MD VB VBN DT JJ NN WRB PRP VBD TO VB PRP$ NN . CC NN NNS VBP PRP VBD TO VB IN WP VBD VBN VBN TO VB . PRP VBD TO VB DT NN VBN IN JJ NN CC JJ NN TO DT NNP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN NN NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNPS . NNP VBD TO VB . NNP NNP VBD IN IN DT JJ NN VBD VBN VBN IN NN VBD VBN IN NNP , EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN PRP VBZ . '' PRP RB VBD DT NN VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN NN WDT MD RB VB NN IN DT NN NN . 
NNP NNP , WP VBZ TO VB PRP$ JJ NN , VBD IN VBG DT NNS IN DT JJ CC VBG NNS VB NNS CC NNS VBD DT NN IN PRP$ NN . IN NN TO VBG JJ JJ NNS , PRP VBD , PRP RB VBZ NN , NN CC WP PRP VBD JJ NN . '' DT NNS VBP IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NN VBZ VBN . IN CD , DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNP , VBZ VBN DT NN IN NNS VBG DT NN IN JJ NNS . DT NNS VBD IN NNS RB VBD JJ NNS , VBG JJ NNS TO JJ NNS CC NN . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD DT JJ NN VBD DT JJ NN . CC NN IN DT JJ NN MD VB RB VB JJ IN DT NN IN NNP VBP VBG TO VB PRP IN PRP VBP PRP , '' '' PRP VBD , VBG VBG DT NN IN NNS VBP . '' DT NN PRP IN DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN VBZ IN PRP IN DT NN IN NNS . '' 
NNS VBP VBN VBN IN JJ JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . NN VBD RB JJ . '' JJ NNS : NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP IN DT NN VBP RB VBN NN NN CC MD VB : NNP : IN DT NN IN JJ NN CC NN , IN NN VBG IN JJ NNS CC NN NN . NNP NNP NNP NNP : NNP NN TO DT JJ NN CC WRB TO VB NN . NNP : VBG DT NNS IN NN CC VBG JJ NNS IN WP NNS MD VB IN PRP$ JJ . NNP POS : VBG DT NNS IN DT NN CC VBG TO VB WRB CC WRB TO VB . IN NNP NNP : PRP VBP DT JJ NNS IN NN CC NN IN DT NNP NNPS NN : NN NN , NN , VBD , JJ JJ JJ NN , VBZ CC NNP POS NN , IN DT NN . CC PRP VBP DT NN IN JJ . PRP VBP JJ : RB , PRP VBP IN CD NN IN DT NN POS JJ NN NN NNS , VBD NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP . 
DT NN VBD WRB . PRP MD VB , IN DT NNS VBD , IN NNP VBD NN NNS . CC PRP MD VB , IN NNP VBD , IN NNP VBD JJ , IN JJ RB VBD DT NN IN DT NN NN . IN NNP CD , IN DT NN IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP , NNP VBD DT NN POS VBG IN NN NN NN TO DT NN POS NN . JJ JJ NNS VBD . CD VBD IN DT CD NNP NNS : DT IN CD CD NNS VBN IN NNP NNP POS NN NN NNS : DT IN JJR IN CD NNP NNS . DT VBD JJR NN NNS CC NNS IN NNP , CC JJ NNS VBN IN WRB TO VB DT NN . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP , VBG IN JJ NNS , VBD RB IN NNP CC NNS IN PRP$ NN VBD RB JJ VBG . PRP VBD PRP VBD JJ NN , VBN NN , CC JJ NN '' VBN IN NNS IN NN . 
NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD IN DT NN IN NNP NNP WDT VBD NNP IN , PRP VBD , VBD DT NN , PRP VBD DT NN PRP VBP DT JJS NN IN . '' CC , IN NNP NNP , PRP VBD IN JJ NNS IN DT NN MD VB IN RB JJ . DT NNP NNP NN VBD IN PRP$ NN IN RB JJ NNS VBD JJ IN NN NNS IN DT NN , VBG CD , NN , NN , JJ NNS , NNS , NNS , FW NN , NN CC JJ NN NNS . '' NNP NNP VBD , RB , IN VBG DT NN TO VB RP DT JJ NNS . IN PRP VBP IN DT IN JJ , PRP MD RB VB NNS IN JJ NNS , '' PRP VBD . VB RB VB DT NN DT NN IN , UH , IN PRP MD RB VB NNP PRP MD VB JJ , CC IN PRP MD RB VB JJ , PRP MD VB RB . '' '' 
NNP VBZ RB VBN PRP . IN DT NN IN NNP , PRP VBD RB JJ IN WRB NNS VBN . WRB PRP VBD DT NN PRP MD VB IN PRP DT NN , RB VB PRP RB TO VB WRB PRP VBD VBN RB . IN PRP VBD JJR , PRP VBD DT JJ NN TO DT NN NN CC DT NN NN . IN CD NN PRP VBD RB VBN IN DT JJ NN , IN WDT PRP MD VB DT NNS . CD NN IN VBG IN DT NN PRP VBD IN EX VBD NNS IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBD PRP$ CD JJ NNS TO VB PRP , IN DT VBD JJ TO DT JJ NN IN NN PRP VBD VBN VBN , WDT VBD IN DT NN VBD DT JJ NN WDT VBD PRP$ JJ NN . CC IN PRP$ NN DT NN VBD RB RB DT NN NN , VBN IN NNS . IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBD VBG NN , PRP VBP JJ PRP MD VB DT NN IN NN RB . 
RB , DT JJ NNS VBD RB VBG RB NNS TO VB IN PRP VBD JJ . IN PRP RB VBD PRP VBD RB , CC VBD PRP TO JJ NN NNS , IN NNP NNS . WRB VBD PRP VB . NNP VBD , PRP VBZ RP . NNP NNP NNP NNP , IN CD , VBZ NN VBD JJ , RB IN PRP MD VB CD JJ NNS IN VBG CD NN . DT NN RB VBD PRP TO VB IN DT NN VBD PRP$ NN POS , CC IN NN , PRP VBZ , VBD RB RB RB . PRP VBZ NN IN JJ , '' PRP VBZ . NNS VBP TO VB IN NN PRP TO VB IN PRP . '' NNS VBP PRP VBD NN NN : CC VBG NN : DT JJ RB VBN NN VBN TO VB DT RBR JJ NNS , WP DT IN DT NNP NNS VBP CD NNP NN . '' NN VBD JJ IN PRP TO VB IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP NNP NNP VBZ . 
EX VBP RB NNS VBG IN DT JJ JJ NN , CC DT MD VB PRP DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD IN NNP . NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP POS NNP IN NN NNP , VBD PRP VBD VBN CD NNS IN NNP DT NN , IN DT JJ NN NNS . CC PRP MD RB VB PRP TO NNS , PRP VBD . IN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS , NNS CC NN NNS VBD , JJR CC JJR NNS MD VB VBN IN PRP . '' NN NNS VBP NNS IN NNS IN NN VBN IN NN CC NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , VBG TO NNP . CC CD VBZ VBN IN PRP VBZ DT NN . DT NN VBZ VBN IN PRP VBZ NN NNS . DT NN VBZ VBN IN PRP VBZ NN NN . CC NNS VBP PRP IN PRP VBZ VBN TO VB DT NNS . '' 
CD IN NNP POS JJS JJ NNS , NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , CC NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , DT NN NN , VBP VBN IN NNP POS NNP NN TO NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC JJ NNS . DT CD NNS VBD VBN DT JJ NNP NN WDT VBD DT JJ NN NN IN NNS TO VB IN PRP VBD IN TO VB NNP TO NNS . WRB PRP VBD , PRP VBD VBN NN IN NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN NNS IN NNP NNP NNP POS NN IN NN . PRP VBD , IN JJ NNS , IN JJS NNS POS JJ NNS MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN NNP . DT NNP JJ NN VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBD TO VB '' NNS IN DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP WDT VBD VBN IN JJ CD . DT NNS VBD JJ NNS VBD RBR JJ IN NNP IN VBG NNS POS JJ NNS . 
NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN POS NN IN DT NNS . NNS VBP RB VB PRP VBZ DT NN IN DT JJ NNS IN PRP VBZ , '' PRP VBD . CC NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNS IN NNP CC DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP WP VBD RB DT NN TO DT NN , VBD DT JJ NNS NN JJ TO PRP . '' VBP VBN IN DT JJ NN VBG IN DT NN VBZ TO PRP RB JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBN DT NN IN NNS IN JJ NN IN DT CD NNS CC VBZ VBN IN JJ CC JJ NNS , VBG DT IN NNS NNP CC NNP NNP NNP . '' NN IN NNS WP$ NNS VBP RB IN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN VBP RB VB TO VB VBN CC VBN , '' PRP VBD . 
DT NN VBD VBN RB IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NN WP VBD VB $ CD CD IN JJ NN JJ NN , CC $ CD CD DT NN , IN DT NNS IN NNP , NNP CC NNP . NNP NNS VBD PRP VBD RB VBN TO VB IN WRB TO VB JJ NN TO VB VB DT NN , IN PRP MD RB VB WRB JJ NNS MD VB IN PRP VBD VBD RB IN NN . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD IN IN JJ NN , NNS IN DT IN NNP MD VB TO VB JJ JJ NN DT JJ NN . CC PRP VBD TO NNP IN CD , PRP VBD TO VB IN DT NN IN PRP$ NNS IN JJ NN VBD RB VB JJ NNS , '' PRP VBD NN . CC VBD IN PRP IN DT NNS WP VBP JJ NN VBP JJ NNS , CC EX VBZ DT NN IN NNS CC NNS CC NNPS . IN PRP VBD TO PRP IN RB , RB RB , PRP MD VB DT IN DT . '' 
NNP VBP NN CC NN , NN NN , NN CC NN , RB RB IN NN CC NN IN DT NN CC NNS . IN DT JJ NN CC RB , DT NN NN NNS IN DT NN VBD VBN CC VBN IN VBG NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNS NNS . CD NN VBD DT JJ NN WP VBD IN VBG DT NNP NNP JJ NN . NNS VBP VBG IN NN RBR RB IN RB IN , CC PRP VBP IN VBD NN VBZ RB RB VB DT JJ NNS . DT NN MD VB IN JJ JJ NNS VBP VBG RB JJ NN . CC VBP VBN DT JJ NN IN VBG NNS IN JJ NN , CC DT NNS VBP VBN IN TO DT JJ NN , VBG IN DT JJR PRP VBP , DT JJR , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP IN JJS IN DT NN NNS IN NN VBD RB JJ NNS WP VBD NNS TO VB NN IN NN . CC VBP DT NNS WP VBP IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , CC EX VBZ DT NN IN PRP VBP VBG RB JJ NN IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
CD IN DT RBS RB JJ JJ NNS IN JJ JJ NNS VBZ NNP , VBN IN NNP , VBN IN NNP . PRP VBZ IN VBG DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ TO DT NNS IN NN . JJS NNS WP VBD DT NN IN CD NNS VBD DT NN IN CD NNS , DT NN VBD . NN VBZ VBN TO VB NNP CC NNP NNP NN IN NNP IN DT NN . JJ NNS VBP DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN NN , NNP NNP , VBZ VBG IN NN IN NNP . DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN POS NN TO VB VBG WRB NN VBZ DT NNS . NNS '' IN JJ , IN NN , VBP RB VBN NNS IN DT JJ NN CC JJ NN NNS , RB RB IN DT JJ NN . NNS VBD RB VBN IN JJ NNS IN DT CD POS CC CD POS , IN NNS VBN PRP$ JJ NNS . RBR RB , JJ NNS VBP VBN VBN IN JJ NNS . 
JJ NN , DT JJ NN NN VBD IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBD JJ . DT NN POS NNS , DT JJ NN , VBD CD JJ NNS CC RB MD VB VBN DT IN PRP VBD : CC NN VBD JJ , CC DT VBD JJ CC IN PRP$ CD POS . CC PRP VBD RB VB DT NN . PRP VBD DT NN . CC IN RB , PRP VBD TO VB IN DT NN PRP VBD VBD VBG PRP NN RB JJ : IN PRP$ JJ NN POS NNS VBD VBG RB , IN DT NN MD , TO VB PRP RB IN DT NN . DT NN VBD PRP IN PRP$ JJ NN POS NN VBD DT NN , IN PRP VBD VBN IN NN CC MD VB VBN RP IN NN . RB IN PDT DT VBD VBN , VBP , CD NNS RB , PRP$ NN MD VB RB VBN RB . DT NN MD VB VBN PRP$ NNS CC NN IN DT JJ NN IN VBG PRP$ NN POS NNS , CC VBN VBN IN IN PRP , CC VBN IN DT JJ NN . CC PRP VBD JJ NN : CD NNS IN DT VBG NN VBN IN NNP DT NN , IN DT NN WRB NN IN DT NNS IN NN VBD VBG JJ CC WRB PRP VBD RB IN DT JJ TO VB JJ NNS WP VBD DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS . CD JJ NN , DT JJ , JJ JJ NN VBD DT NNPS , IN WP NN VBZ DT JJ NN , VBD RB JJ TO VB PRP$ NN IN NN . JJ NNP , DT VBG NN CC DT NNPS VBD CD DT ( IN DT NNP , IN NN ) IN NNS WDT MD : CC MD : VB DT JJ NN IN IN JJ NNS MD RB TO VB VBN , CC IN WP NN . 
DT NN RB VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN IN NN VBD VBN NN IN DT JJ JJ NN IN IN NNS IN PRP VBZ JJ CC JJ NNS CC VBZ DT NN IN NN . IN DT NN , NN , VBZ RB VBN IN CD NNS , PRP VBZ RB JJ IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP MD VB PRP$ NN IN DT NNP NNPS IN JJ NN NNS . DT JJ NN VBD RB , CD TO CD , IN VBG DT NN , VBG EX VBD JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . DT NNP . VBZ RB VBN TO VB DT NN IN JJ NNS , CC PRP RB VBZ . DT NN POS NN VBD DT NN TO NNP , DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN , WDT VBZ VBN IN JJ NNS IN DT NN NN NNP . IN DT JJ NN VBN NN , DT NN POS NN , WDT VBZ IN DT NN IN JJ NN NNS , VBD IN $ CD , RB $ CD CC CD NN . PRP VBD DT $ CD IN JJ NN . 
CC EX VBP JJ , RB RB JJ , NNS IN DT . CC VBZ DT RB JJ NN IN NN VBZ RB RBR JJ RB IN DT NN VBZ IN NN , '' VBZ DT JJ NN NNP NNP , VBZ DT NN IN NN CC NN RB RBR DT NN IN DT NN POS NN IN IN PRP$ NN . '' IN PRP VBP NNP POS JJ NN IN JJ NN VBZ DT RB VBG NN CC IN DT JJR IN DT JJ NN , DT JJR DT NN TO DT NN IN JJ NN , RB RB IN DT JJ NN JJR NN VBZ RBR JJ . RB , IN NN , IN CD NN IN NNS VBP VBN IN DT JJ NN , CD NN IN DT RB VBP IN CD CC CD NNS , IN WDT NN DT VBG NN VBZ VBN DT NN , RB DT NN . IN JJ NNS : CC RB JJ NN NNS : VB RBR JJ , RB JJ IN DT NNS MD VB IN DT JJ TO JJ NN RB . 
DT NNS , PRP VBD , VBP DT JJ NN , DT NN NN RB RB VBN IN NNS . RB , PRP VBD , '' VBP PRP VB PRP IN DT NN . '' IN CD JJ NN , NN VBP VBN IN DT NN IN NN CC VBD TO VB WRB JJ PRP VBP IN VBG RP . IN PRP VBP VBN IN DT NN , PRP VBP RB . DT JJ VBZ VBG NNS IN PRP$ NNS : DT VBN NNS RB RBR IN VBG RP . IN DT JJ NN , NN VBP VBN TO VB DT JJ NN IN VBG DT NN . WRB DT NN VBZ VBN , DT NN NN TO VB PRP RB , RB IN PRP RB VB VBN . NNP IN DT NN IN NNS VB VBG PRP RBR . CC NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN CC NN IN NNP , VBD PRP VBD DT NN TO VB IN DT JJ NN MD VB JJ NN . CC JJ NN PRP VBP : CC DT VBZ JJ : VBZ PRP VBP RB VB TO VB DT NN IN DT NN TO DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . NNS IN NN , PRP VBD , VBP RB VB JJ CC JJ . '' 
DT NN VBZ DT NN IN NNP TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NN . NNS VBP RB VBN RBR WRB PRP VBP VB DT JJ NN IN VBG RB TO DT NN , IN NN . DT NNS VBG IN DT NN VBP VBG VBN IN IN PRP VBP NNS JJ NNS WRB PRP VBP IN WRB JJS TO VB JJ . JJ NNS VBP PRP VBP VBN IN DT NN POS NNS RB RB IN VBG DT NN TO DT NN WDT VBZ NNS RBR RB TO NN NN . IN PRP VBP VBZ DT JJ NN RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP IN DT NN VBZ DT NN IN VBG JJ NN . CC VBP PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN IN DT NN IN VBG RB JJ NNS IN NN TO DT NN IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN CC JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , DT JJ NN VBN IN NNP , NNP . 
IN DT NN VBG TO DT NN , NNP NNP VBD RP PRP$ NNS CC VBD PRP TO NNP NNP . '' VBD DT NN IN DT NNS CC PRP VBD , UH , IN PRP VBP IN IN PRP VBZ IN IN NN CD , DT NN NN NN VBZ CD CC IN NN CD PRP VBZ CD CC IN NN CD PRP VBZ CD , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD DT NN : JJ NN NN NNS CD NN NN . CC , NN NNS VBD , DT NNS , IN RB DT NN NNS , VBD NNS . PRP VBD IN NNS WP JJS JJ VBD RB JJ IN DT JJ NN . PRP VBZ WP VBD IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN NN , PRP CC NNS VBD , VBG JJ NN NNS IN NNS WP VBP RB VBN TO VBG VBZ RB JJ IN JJ RB VBP DT NN . IN DT NN VBZ VBP JJ , NNS WP VBP RB VBN TO VB MD VB IN PRP$ NNS VBP VBG . CD MD VB PRP MD RB VB DT RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
DT RBS JJ NN IN DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN . PRP MD VB RB TO PRP TO VB , VB DT NN NN TO VB TO DT NN . '' : TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT NNS , DT NNS , NN : DT JJ NN IN PRP VBP IN IN JJ NN : VBG IN NNS MD VB JJ CC PRP MD RB VB JJ . DT RB VBP TO VB RB IN DT NN VBG DT NNS . NNP . NNP MD NNP NNP POS NN IN NNS CC NN NN NN PRP . DT . DT NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN RB JJ IN NN , CC NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN CC JJ NNS NN VBZ VBN NN IN VBG DT NN VB RBR DT NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ DT NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN . DT NN NN NN NNS : DT NN MD RB RB VB DT NN IN DT NNS , CC IN VBG DT NN IN DT NN , PRP MD VB VB DT JJ NNS WDT VBP TO VB NN . CC NN NN . IN DT NN VBZ VBG TO VB DT NN WDT MD VB VBN IN NNP , PRP VBZ VBG TO VB VBN TO JJ NNS IN JJ NNS RB RB , CC DT VBZ TO VB NN IN DT NN NN . 
CC PRP$ NNS CC PRP VBP IN DT NN DT NN . PRP MD VB RB JJ IN JJR IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB IN NN NN , CC DT NN VBZ , PRP RB VBP , CC DT IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN PRP VBP JJ NN . DT NN PRP VBP VBN IN PRP VBZ TO VB RB CC NN IN DT JJ NN . PRP VBP VBN IN PRP$ NN IN NN VBZ RB JJ PRP VBP RB JJ TO VB DT RP IN WP MD VB IN DT NN . RB , PRP VBP TO VB NNS RB , VB RB NN : CC VB IN NN IN DT NN . NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP IN CD NNS IN NNS IN DT NN IN NNS IN NN NN NN VBD DT NN IN DT NN . PRP VBZ NNP NNP , RB NNP . IN NN , CD NNS IN DT NN VBD VBN . DT NN IN NNP NNP VBD IN NNP NNP NNP : DT CD IN NNP NNP VBD IN NNP NNP . 
NNP NN VBD IN DT NN IN DT NNS WDT NNP VBD IN NNP IN DT NN VBN TO VB DT NN POS NN NN . IN DT NN IN JJ NN IN VBG RP IN NNP , DT NN IN NNP NN NNS , NNP VBZ PRP RB VBZ IN PRP MD RB VB DT NNS IN VBG DT NN IN PRP$ NN NNS CC IN VBG DT NN NN NNS VBP . PRP VBZ DT NN IN DT NNS NN IN NN NN WDT VBZ VBN JJ NNS IN DT NNS . IN DT NN NN IN JJR IN CD NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP VBG NN , VBD IN DT JJ NN VBN NNP WDT MD VB NNP NNS TO VB NN NNS CC RB NN PRP . NNP NNP , DT NNP NN VBD IN DT NN , VBZ VBN RB CC NN IN NN CC NN NN NNS IN DT NN . PRP VBD NNP MD VB VBN IN CD TO CD NNS . 
NNS CC NNS IN DT NN VBP VBG TO VB DT JJ NN IN NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS . NNS IN NNS VBP VBG JJ NN NNS IN DT NN , VBN NN NN , WDT VBD JJ NN IN JJ NNS IN NNP NNP IN NNP '' IN NNP , NNP NNP IN NNP NNPS '' IN NNP CC NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP , VBD PRP VBN . DT JJ NNS VBP RB VBN CD NNS IN NN , CC NNS IN NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN RB CC VBD TO VB PRP$ NN . JJ NNS : VB IN JJ NNS WP VBP IN RB JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS , IN VBN IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP NN : VBD JJR IN CD NN JJ NN , TO CD . DT NN , DT NN VBZ VBN TO VB TO CD , VBG TO NNP CC NN : NNP , DT VBG NN . VBG IN NNS VBZ VBG $ CD CD DT NN , IN DT JJ NN IN $ CD IN DT NN . 
NNP NNP , CD , PRP$ NN NN RB JJ , NNS NNP IN DT NNS . NNP PRP VBZ IN DT NN , VBG CC VBG NN TO VB DT NNS CC VBG DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP . PRP VBZ NNS VBN IN CD , CC VBZ VBN RB RBR IN CD NNS IN CD NN IN DT JJ CD NNS . IN NNP NNP DT NN , IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN IN WP PRP VBZ DT JJ NN . NNP . WRB VBP PRP VBN PRP$ NNS IN JJ NN TO VB . NNP PRP VBP DT NN TO VB NNS VB WP PRP VBP VBG TO DT NN , WP DT NN PRP VBP VBG IN PRP$ NN . IN DT NN , DT JJR NNS PRP VBP , DT JJR PRP VBP . PRP VBZ VBG , DT NNS , NNS CC NNS , CC PRP VBP NNP CC PRP$ JJ NNS IN DT NN . CC IN PRP VBD TO VB RB TO IN , PRP MD RB VB PRP VBD VBG WP PRP MD VB VBG . 
CC RB , PRP VBD , WRB JJ NNS VBD IN VBG NNP . NN IN PRP$ NNS IN JJ NNS , VBZ RB VBN PRP '' IN VBG . CC DT NN , NN CC NN PRP MD VB IN NNS TO VB PRP$ NN NNS CC IN DT NNP . TO VB PRP VBP DT NN TO VB PRP VB IN , VBD NNP NNP IN DT JJ NNS NN . WDT VBP TO VB JJ NNS , '' PRP VBD . MD NN VBZ RB RB JJ . DT VBZ WRB PRP VBP NNS . '' IN NN VBD VBN PRP RB VBG TO VB DT NN IN NN IN DT NN WDT VBD RB VBN VBN IN DT NNP , NNP NNP VBD , PRP MD VB VBN PRP TO VB . PRP MD RB VB NN TO VB IN DT NN IN DT , RB . '' 
DT NN TO VB DT JJ NN VBZ VBN , DT VBP , DT NN TO DT VBG NN , RB DT NN IN PRP . DT NNS MD VB VBN , IN CD NN POS NN , DT JJ NN VBN IN NNS CC NNS , JJS IN WDT VBP RB RB VBN VBN DT NNS . VBG WP VBZ DT NNS VBP CC WRB DT NNS VBP PRP$ NNS IN DT NN MD VB RB JJR IN RB VBG DT NN . JJ NNS VBP PRP IN DT NN WDT MD VB PRP$ NN IN IN JJS DT JJ CD NNS , IN RB DT JJ NN . 
NN VBZ VBG TO VB CC VB PRP , CC IN WP . '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBP VBG TO DT NNS CC VBG PRP$ NNS , CC PRP VBP VBD CD NN NNS IN PRP$ NNS . '' CD NNS IN DT NNP NNP : NNP , NNP CC NNP : VBP DT NN IN JJ NN NN . IN DT NN VBZ RB RB VBG IN DT NNP NNP , VBZ IN JJ NN NN IN PRP MD RB VB NNS RB , RB VBN DT NNP NNP NN TO VB PRP VB . CC , NNS VBP JJ TO VB IN DT NN RB RB IN PRP VBP VBG NNS RB IN DT NNP NNP , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNS WP VBZ JJ NNS NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP . NNP NNS VBP VBN TO VB VBG DT NN NNS , VBG PRP$ NN IN NNP , DT JJ NN NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN NNP , DT JJ NN IN NN , VBZ DT NN IN VBG JJ PRP IN DT NN . 
RB , NNP NNP VBD PRP MD VB JJ CD NN TO VB JJ NNS IN NN . NNP NNS MD VB VBN , RB , PRP VBD , IN VBG DT NN IN DT NN IN DT NN IN CD IN DT NN POS JJ NNS . CC JJ CC JJ NNS VBP VBN NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP . NNP NNS VBN IN JJ NN NNS VBP TO VB IN NN NNS , IN NN NNS IN JJ NNS VBD RBR RB IN NN CC NN NNS , PRP VBD . NNP NNP VBD IN IN DT NN MD VB VBN TO VB JJ VBG PRP MD VB RP JJ JJ JJ NNS . DT NN MD VB NN IN NN . CC CD NNS MD VB JJ TO DT NN CD NN TO VB DT NN RB . 
CD JJ NN IN DT NN RB RB VBZ IN DT NNP NN NNS RB IN NNS IN NNS VBN IN JJ NNS . DT VBZ VBG DT NN JJR . VBG DT NN WDT VBZ VBN IN DT NN MD RB VB JJ IN VBG NNS CC NNS , RB JJ NNS VBP VBG TO VB IN PRP MD VB NNS IN NNS CC NNS . DT NNS VBP WDT VBZ RB JJ IN NNS VBP TO VB RB CD NNS . DT NN NN VBZ RB RB JJ NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP , DT NN IN DT NNS . RB , DT RB VBN JJ NN IN DT NNP NN VBZ IN PRP VBZ RB RB JJ TO JJ JJ NNS . IN IN NNS , NNS IN NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN , VBD JJ NN IN DT DT NNP IN DT NN IN NNS CC DT JJ NN NN VBD TO VB . CC DT NNP NN NN VBD IN PRP$ NNS IN NN VBD RB VB DT NN IN DT NNP NN NN IN DT NN . CC DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NN IN NNP NNP VBZ VBN NN IN DT NN RB RB . 
IN PRP VBZ RB JJ IN DT JJ NN NNS TO VB WRB NNS VBP IN PRP$ CD POS CC CD POS , DT NNS RB VBP RB RB IN NNS VBP JJ IN NNS JJR IN CD . IN DT , NN NN VBZ RB JJ : NNS IN PRP$ CD POS CC CD NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN VBG VBN IN JJ NN : DT NN VBG TO CD VBZ RB JJ TO VB PRP . CC RB , VBN NN NN POS JJ NN , JJS JJR NNS MD VB IN JJ NNS , IN NN NN CC NN . NNP DT NN IN JJS JJ NN NNS VBP IN PRP$ NN RB IN IN PRP . RB , DT NNP . NN MD RB VB DT RBR VBG NNS IN WDT JJ NN MD VB DT NN . RB , DT NNP . VBZ TO VB JJ NNS , RB DT JJS IN WP VBP NNS WP VBP VBN NN CC RB VBD DT NN . PRP VBP RB VBN IN NNP . NN VBZ VBN PRP$ NNS , IN RB VBN PRP . RB , IN DT NNS DT NN MD VB VBN RB DT . 
RB DT CD NN , VBN IN NNP , DT NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP , VBD IN JJ NNS VBD IN NN NN IN NNP NNPS JJ NNS , WRB JJ JJ NN VBZ VBN , VBD DT CD NN JJR NN IN NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS VBG DT JJ NN . VBG TO NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NN CC NN IN DT NN , JJ NN MD VB DT NN . IN DT JJ NN NN , PRP VBD IN , VBN IN NNS CC NNPS , DT JJR NN IN DT JJ NNS VBD VBN NNS IN NN NN IN NN . IN DT WP$ NN NNS VBD VBN IN NNS , EX VBD DT NNS IN JJ NNS . NNP CC NN NN MD RB VB DT NN . JJS IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN VBD JJ NNS , RB JJ TO DT NNP POS JJ NNS . IN NN , NNP NNP VBD , JJ NNS VBP JJR CC VBP VBN NN NN IN NNS , VBG DT PRP$ NNS IN NN NN CC DT NN IN VBG PRP IN DT NN . NNP JJ NNS RB VBP TO VB DT JJR NN IN NN NN IN JJ NNS IN JJ NN . 
NNP NNP VBD RB , IN DT NN NN , PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NN MD RB VB VBN . PRP VBZ JJ NN VBZ VBN DT NN IN DT NN RB VBZ , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ CD IN DT NNS WDT VBZ JJ CC DT NNS VBZ RB JJ . '' IN NN , WP VBZ JJ IN DT WP VBP NN MD RB VB JJ IN NN NN . RB DT NN NNS VBN NN VBP DT NN IN DT NNP . JJ NN VBZ NN NNS , NNS CC RB JJ NNS TO VB IN PRP$ JJ NNS IN NN IN JJ NN , '' DT NNP . NN , NNP NNP NNP , VBD DT NNP IN CD , VBG TO DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP . CC NN IN NN RB VBZ DT JJ NNS TO VB RB JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS IN DT NN IN NN NN . '' RB , DT NN NNS VBD IN IN PRP MD VB VBG IN NN TO VB DT RB JJ NN , DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP POS NN MD VB JJ . 
NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP , MD RB VB WRB VBN IN DT NN VBD VBN DT IN NNS . PRP RB MD RB VB DT NN POS NN IN NN , VBG PRP VBD RB VB TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN VBZ NN IN DT NN VBN IN NN . PRP VBZ VBN IN DT NNS IN NNS , NNS , NNS CC NNS MD VB RB , IN DT NN POS NN VBG IN DT NN IN VBG VBN IN DT JJ NNP , WDT VBZ IN DT NNP IN NN NN , VBZ RB VB RB IN NNS . CC IN NNS NNS VBP VBN WRB TO VB DT NNS IN NN , NNS CC JJ NNS IN VBG IN IN PRP VBD VBN VBN IN VBG DT NNS TO JJ NNS CC TO VB NNS , JJ NNS CC JJ NNS . DT VBG NN VBP VBN NNS . PRP VBZ RB VBN VBN IN DT VBZ RB VBN VBN IN JJ NNS , RB , CC PRP MD VB JJ NNS . 
DT NN VBP NN IN DT NNS . DT JJ NNS IN DT NN NN IN DT NNS VBD DT NN POS NN IN VBG NN NN : DT NN IN JJS NN : IN JJR IN DT NN IN DT NN IN NN , DT JJ NN . CC IN DT NNS VBP VBN IN NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS , DT NN VBZ IN NNS IN NNS IN NNS IN NN NN CC JJ NN , DT JJ JJ NN NN . DT JJ NN VBZ VBN DT NN RB IN DT NNS CC NNS IN VBG NN RB , DT NN IN NN IN CD CD JJ NNS WP VBP VBN NNS . DT NN IN DT NN MD VB . DT VBG JJ NN VBZ TO VB IN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ JJ , RB IN NNS WRB JJ NNS VBP JJ , JJ IN DT NN IN NN CC NN NNS . CC JJ NN TO VB DT NNS IN NN , DT NN RB VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN , MD RB VB JJ . WDT MD VB DT NN NN TO DT JJ NN PRP RB VBD : IN DT NN NN CC JJ NN IN NN , VBN IN JJ NNS WDT VBP RB VBN TO VB JJ , VBD PRP TO VB NN . 
IN JJS IN DT JJ NN , NNS VBD IN NN NNS IN DT JJ NN IN NNS : DT NN NN WDT MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN NN . CC VBD RB DT NN , JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN IN NNP CC NNP POS NNP . VBG TO DT NN , IN NN NNS VBD RB JJ , EX MD RB VB JJ NN VBD IN NN TO VB , CC DT NN MD VB TO VB JJ NNS . IN DT JJ NN VBD RB VBN , DT NN MD VB DT NN NN . CC JJ NNS , PRP VBZ RP , NN IN JJS CD IN IN CD NN NNS . DT NN NN IN NNS WP$ NN VBZ VBG RB , IN NNS VBN IN JJR IN PDT PRP$ NN . DT JJR NNS VBP RB VBN IN NNS WP VBP IN NN NNS RB JJ , IN PRP$ CD POS CC CD POS . IN DT NNS , NNS VBD DT JJ NN . 
IN NNS VBP JJR , NNP NNP VBD , DT NN POS NN NN CC NN NN NN MD VB JJR , VBG JJR NN IN DT NN WRB NN VBZ VBN . PRP VBZ RB WRB JJ DT NN VBZ , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ WRB JJ NN TO WRB JJ DT NNS VBP IN NNS IN DT NN IN NN NN CC NN NN . '' DT NN VBD IN JJ NN VBD RB VB NNS IN JJ NNS CC NNS IN JJ NN TO PRP$ NNS . CC DT NNS VBD JJ IN JJ CC JJ NN NNS . IN NN , DT NNS VBD RB VB VBG NNS IN NNS VBD JJ NN , JJ JJ NN NN , JJ NN , CC VBD VBG IN NN NN . PRP RB VBD IN JJ NNS IN JJ TO VB NNS JJ VB IN JJ NN NNS IN IN JJS CD TO CD NNS . IN CD , NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBZ IN DT JJ NN NN WDT NNP NNP VBZ IN NNP NNP . NNS VBP TO VB DT NN VBG TO VB DT NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBD DT NN NN CD NNS RB . 
DT NN IN NNS IN NNS IN DT JJ NN VBD RB VBG VBN RP JJ NN NN VBN IN DT NN IN VBG IN DT NNS IN JJ NNS WP VBP NNS . PRP DT VBD DT JJ NN CC VBG NN : MD PRP VB , RB . IN PRP$ NNS VBN IN NNS , DT NN IN NNS VBD TO VB , IN WDT NN NNS VBD VBN IN CD NNS : NNS WP VBD VBN PRP RB DT NN CC CD TO VB JJ NNS CC JJ JJ NNS IN NN CC DT WP VBD VBN PRP IN NNS . IN DT JJ , NNS VBD , JJ NN NN RB VBZ JJ . CC PRP VBZ RB VB RB NN IN PRP RB VBD IN DT NN POS JJ NN . CC DT NN VBZ RB VBN VBG NNS IN DT NN CC CD TO VB JJ NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP POS RB JJ IN PRP$ TO VB IN . CC IN PRP VBZ VBN IN NNS IN CD NNS , PRP VBZ NN TO VB . '' 
DT RB VBD RB , '' NNP NNP VBD , IN PRP VBP RB RB JJ IN PDT DT NNS WDT VBD TO PRP . '' DT NN IN DT NN VBZ IN IN JJ NN VBZ VBN TO VB , CC VBZ RB IN DT NN , EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS CC IN NNS . DT NN NN IN JJ NNS VBZ IN RB DT IN NNS , NNP NNP VBD . NN VBZ VBN DT NN IN NNS . '' NNP NNP VBD JJ NN NNS IN JJ NNS VBD RB VBG . NNS VBP RB RB JJ IN NNS TO VB JJ CC NNS VBP DT RB JJ NN NN IN NNS . NNS VBP RB RB RBR JJ IN NNS TO VB VBN CC VBN IN NN . NNP NNP RB VBD IN DT IN DT RBS JJ NNS VBD IN JJ CC NN . IN NN , PRP VBD , DT NN IN JJ NNPS VBD RB CD IN DT NN POS . DT NNP VBD DT NN IN CD NN IN DT NN IN DT NN CD , CC JJ NNS VBD IN PRP MD VB VBN IN JJR NNS VBD TO VB JJ IN NN CC NN IN DT JJ CD NNS . CC RB , DT NN IN NNS VBP VBD TO CD NN IN CD , DT JJS NN IN WDT NN VBD VBN IN DT NN . 
CD NNP NNS VBD IN JJ NNS VBD VBN NNS IN NN NNS IN DT NN POS NNS IN DT NNP , VBG TO VB PRP . TO JJ , DT NN VBZ DT VBG NN IN DT NN TO VB JJ NNS TO VB JJ NN . IN NNP , NNP NNP NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN PRP$ NNP NN VBG IN VBZ JJ POS NN VBD RB RB . '' CC NNS IN PRP$ NN , RB CD NNS VBD DT NN NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNS . '' VBP TO VB RP CC VB RB , '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN WP VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN NN . '' . NNP VBZ DT JJS NN IN PRP JJ NNS . '' PRP VBD NNP NNP POS VBG VBN RB IN PRP$ JJ JJ NNS IN DT NN . '' DT JJ NNS VBP VBN VBN , RB IN DT NN , VBG NNP NNP VBD VBN NNS IN VBG NNP NNP POS JJ NN IN NN VBP NN IN RB VBG NN IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NN IN NNS IN DT NNP NNPS . 
RB , NNP NNP CC JJ NNP NNS VBP RB DT JJ NN RB VBZ RBR IN NN IN DT . NN IN DT NN POS NNS : CD NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN , NN NNS IN DT NNS , JJR IN JJ NN CC NN IN WRB JJ DT NN VBZ : VBZ RP NNS RB RB IN DT NN , WDT VBZ RB . NNP VBZ $ CD DT NN . CC DT NNS VBP VBG RP TO $ CD , TO VB NN NN CC NN . JJ NNS VBP PRP VBP RB VBG RB VBN IN NN NN NNS , RB PRP VBP NNS IN NNP IN DT NN MD VB IN DT NN ( WDT VBZ WP PRP VBZ ) CC RB VB TO DT NN POS NN TO VB DT NN . JJ NNS VBD PRP VBD VBN TO VB PRP CC PRP$ NNS : DT IN DT JJ NN , IN DT NNP POS NNS . NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , VBZ VBN PRP CC PRP$ NN CC VBD PRP$ NNS IN DT NN IN NNP . ( EX VBP CD NNS IN CD CC CD IN DT NN , CC NNP NNP VBD DT NN VBZ TO VB RBR JJ IN PRP IN IN NNS . ) 
DT JJ NN IN DT VBG NN NN NNS VBD VBN NNP IN DT NN NN NN IN NNP NNP . DT NNS , VBN IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD IN EX VBD CD JJR NNS IN NN NN WRB NNS VBD VBG DT NNS IN NNP CD . NNS IN NNP , DT RBS JJ IN DT NNS , VBD IN NN . DT JJ NN , IN NNP NNP CC NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBD IN NNP NNS , VBD IN DT NN VBD IN CD . NNP , DT NN IN NNP , VBD IN DT NN NN IN VBZ JJ NN IN NN NN IN NN NN VBZ RB VBN VBN IN NN NNS . '' CC DT JJ NNS NN , DT NN VBD , VBZ RB VB NN CC NNS . EX VBD JJ JJ NNS IN DT NN , NNP VBD . IN RB , DT NN VBD , NN CC JJ NN IN DT JJR NN IN NN VBZ VBN IN DT NNS MD VB RB JJ . '' 
IN DT NNS , VBG RB VBZ IN DT NN TO VB DT NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN : RB IN PRP VBZ RB TO CD NN , RB IN DT NN VBZ RB JJ , RB IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN IN WP DT NN VBZ . NNP NNP , CD IN DT NNS IN JJ NNS WP VBP VBN NNS TO DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NN VBG NN , VBD PRP VBD RB , RB JJ '' IN VBG TO VB DT NN . NNP , DT JJ NN POS NN CC JJ NN IN NNP , NNP , VBZ CD NNS , CD CC CD , CC IN IN DT NN PRP VBD DT NN RB , PRP MD RB VB DT JJR IN PRP$ JJ NN . IN JJ JJ NNS VBN IN VBG , NNP VBD TO VB : CC PRP VBD DT JJ NN , CC POS NN VBD RB JJ CC JJ IN PRP VBD IN IN PRP . '' PRP VBD PRP MD VB VBG DT NN IN DT NN IN DT NN NN , IN IN PRP VBP JJ JJ NNS IN PRP VBG PRP$ NNS CC VBG PRP$ NNS . '' CC IN PRP VBZ NNS , NNP MD VB VB NNS RB RB . NNS VBP DT NN WP VBZ CD , CC PRP VBD CD IN PRP$ NNS , '' PRP VBD IN DT NN NN . CC PRP VBP PRP VBZ RB VBN WRB PRP VBZ IN DT NN . '' WRB PRP VBD IN PRP MD VB TO VB CD IN PRP$ NNS CC PRP$ NN POS , NNP VBD VBN , RB VBD PRP VBD NNS MD VB DT . '' CC IN DT NN , PRP VBD , '' , PRP MD VB PRP$ NN POS , PRP VBP . '' PRP VBD PRP$ NN VBD DT JJ NN CC PRP MD VB PRP TO VB DT NN RB IN PRP : CD WP PRP MD VB CD DT NN NN . '' 
'' VBP RB RB IN DT NN IN DT VBG IN NNS , CC EX VBP JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC EX VBP DT NNS IN DT NN WDT VBP RB JJ , CC PRP VBP RB IN DT RB VBG . DT VBZ VBG TO VB RB IN WP PRP VBD JJ TO VB IN . '' IN JJ NNS VBG IN JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD JJ IN DT RB JJ JJ NN '' IN DT NN CC VBD PRP VBD JJ NNS TO VB NN . EX VBZ DT NN IN JJR NN VBZ VBG TO VB IN JJR NN , CC PRP MD VB IN DT JJ NN TO VB JJR NNS IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNS RB VBP JJ , '' PRP VBD . IN DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN JJ NNS CC JJ NNS VBP PRP IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS , DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNS RB MD VB IN DT NN CC NN NN TO DT NN . 
NNS MD VB JJ NNS IN DT NN IN VBG NNP NN , WDT VBZ IN IN CD NN IN NN NN , IN DT NN . VBG DT NN , DT JJ NN NNS VBD NNS VBG DT NN IN NN NN , IN NN TO VB NN TO VB NN . NNP NNP POS NNS , CC NN JJ , VBP JJ TO VB NN IN CD NNS . DT NN VBZ JJ NN TO NNS , CC DT VBZ DT NN NN . DT NN RB VBZ DT NN TO VB RB IN WP NNP NNP VBZ . NNP VBZ JJ TO VB NN . CC NNS VBP DT NN NN , DT NNS POS NN IN NNS , RB VBG IN DT NN NN IN NNP CC NNP NNS . NNP NNP NNS VBP DT NNP CC NNP NNP MD VB NNS TO VB NNS VBN IN NN NNS WDT VBP RB CC NNS WDT VBP RB . IN NN , JJ NN NNS MD VB NN NNS TO VB JJ NN NNS CC JJ NN NNS . 
RB , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' PRP MD VB RP IN NNS IN JJ NNS MD RB VB JJR IN DT NNP . NN . CC PRP VBP RB VB DT NN RB , CC PRP VBP RB VB PRP . '' DT NNP 
IN DT NN , PRP VBD TO VB JJ CC JJ CC VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS . RB VBG NN , PRP VBD VBN TO DT JJ NN IN NNP NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , WP VBD PRP$ PRP VBD RB VB JJR NNS CC MD VB IN PRP JJ , PRP VBD . RB , PRP VBD : NN VBD TO VB IN JJ NN CC RB NN . PRP VBD DT JJ NN , NN NNS . PRP$ NNS MD VB IN IN PRP VBD VBG JJ NNS . '' NNP NNP POS NN VBZ IN DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NN IN NNP NN WDT VBZ VBN VBG IN NNS , CC DT VBZ RB VBN IN NN CC RB JJ CC JJ NNS . IN CD NN VBZ NNP NNP POS JJ NN , NNP NNP , WP RB VBN NNP NN IN DT NNP NNPS CD NNS RB IN DT NN IN NNS IN NNP , NNP NNP NNP , IN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , VBP JJS NNS IN NNP NN MD VB RB VBN IN CD TO CD NNS IN NNS , WDT PRP VBP NNS DT NNP NN . 
IN , RB JJ NNS MD VB JJ CC NN : DT JJ NNS CC NNS RB VBP VBN , '' IN DT NN IN PRP VBP TO NN RBR RB : WP VBZ JJ IN DT NN NN VBZ RB PDT DT VBP DT NN . CC NN IN PRP MD VB DT NN CC DT NN WDT VBZ JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBZ RB VB IN DT JJ NNS VBP RB VBN JJ IN NN NN IN PRP MD RB RB VB IN DT NN , CC PRP MD IN DT JJ . UH , PRP MD VB DT NN : CC MD PRP VB PRP TO DT NN . '' VBD NNS MD VB JJR NNS IN NN CC JJ NNS , CC PRP MD RB VB RP IN VBG PRP CC VBG TO VB IN NN NNS . NN IN DT VBZ , RB , IN VBG NNS MD RB RB VB VBN TO JJ NNS : CC RB IN JJ NN VBZ RB VBG IN RB RB RB . PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB RP DT NN CC VB NN NN TO VB RP DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP . RB , PRP MD RB VB RP CD NN TO DT NN IN NN , RB , VBZ VBN NN NN TO VB DT JJ NN . '' 
DT NN , DT NNP CC NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD PRP$ NN JJ NN IN NN IN DT NN IN DT VBN JJ NNS IN NNS IN NNS , NNS CC NNS , RB RB IN IN NN , JJ NNS CC NN . PRP VBD IN PRP VBD DT NN IN NNS WDT NNS VBD IN DT NN CC PRP VBD WRB JJ NNS MD VB VBN IN NNS VBD PRP$ JJ NN . JJ NNS , PRP VBD , MD VB NN . WDT VBD PRP TO VB IN NNS MD VB DT NN NN IN DT NN IN JJ VBG DT NN . DT NN VBD IN NNP NNS IN JJ NN VBZ JJ TO VB NN NN IN NNS IN DT VBN NN NN NN NN . '' RB , PRP VBD , FW NN NN NN RB RB IN TO VB JJ JJ NN NNS IN JJ NN , CD NNS IN JJ NN JJ NN ( NN . jogging IN CD TO CD NNS IN NN ) VBZ VBN IN NN TO DT NNS VBN IN DT JJ NN . '' 
VBG NNS VBD PRP VBD JJ TO VB DT NN IN VBG IN DT NNS IN JJ NNS VBD VBN RB DT JJR DT NN VBD IN NN . NNP NNP VBD DT NNS IN DT NN TO NNS IN JJR IN CD NN NNS IN DT NN VBN RB JJ NN . PRP$ NNS VBD RB VBN NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP IN JJR NN . IN DT NN , NNP NNP , WP VBZ RB DT JJ NN IN NN NNS CC NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBD DT NN MD VB TO VB DT NN CC NN IN PRP VBP IN DT NNS IN NNS IN DT JJ NNS . '' PRP RB VBD PRP NNS TO VB DT NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN . 
NNS VBP DT JJ . JJ VBP IN DT JJ NN IN NN VBZ RB CC RB DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP . CC RB WRB DT NN VBZ NN , DT NN MD RB VB VBG . IN NN , NNP NNP VBD , CD NN TO CD NN IN JJ NNS IN NNS IN CD VBP NNS IN PRP IN DT NN MD VB NN . CC , PRP VBD , JJR IN CD NN IN JJR NNS RB VBP NNS IN JJ NN . CD VBP IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , WP VBZ VBN WP NNS VBP IN NN . CC PRP VBP NNS RB RB IN DT JJ VBP TO VB DT NNS IN NN . CC , RBR JJ , PRP VBP DT NN NN VBN IN VBG . '' NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD NNS NNP NNS CC , IN DT IN CD , NNS . PRP RB VBZ NN NN VBG NNS TO NNS CC NNS IN CD . CC PRP VBD : NNS VBP RB VB JJ IN IN NN WRB NNS VBP . PRP MD VB IN DT NNS IN VBG DT NN NNS , CC VB POS VB VBN IN DT JJ NN . '' 
NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NN CC NN NN IN DT NNPS IN NNP CC NNP NNPS , DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NNS , VBD IN NNP VBD JJ TO VB JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS . NNP , PRP VBD , NNS IN NNS WDT VBP RB JJ . '' RB RB , NN VBZ RB VBN DT NN IN NNP NNS , NNP NNP VBD , IN NNP VBZ RB RB VBN IN VBG PRP . CC , PRP VBD , NNP POS NN VBZ VBN . VB NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ VBN , PRP MD VB IN PRP VBZ DT NN IN NNS IN JJ NNS , '' PRP VBD . '' VBZ RB RB IN DT NN VBZ . '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT CD NNS IN DT NN VBD DT JJ NN WDT VBD JJR IN NN IN JJ : PRP VBD RB RB VBG VBN IN DT JJ NNS VBN TO VB PRP$ NNS , NNS CC NN VBG JJ NNS , RB VBN IN NN NNS . CC DT VBD DT NN NN . 
POS JJ NN VBZ IN DT JJ VBZ TO NNS IN NN IN DT NN , CC DT NN VBZ , PRP VBP RB VB DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP POS NNP NN NNP NNP NNP . EX VBP DT RB JJ NNS IN VBG CC PRP VBP RB VBG DT . CC EX VBP RB RB JJ NNS WDT VBP RB JJ . RB RB , PRP VBZ DT RB JJ NN IN NN . '' WRB NNP NNP NNP NNP VBN IN PRP$ NNS MD VB JJ TO VB JJR NN IN NN RB IN NN . DT NN POS JJ NN RB VBZ VBG IN JJ JJ NN , DT NN VBN IN JJ JJ NN , CC NNP . ( JJ '' VBZ DT NN VBZ RB JJ : CC '' VBZ JJR NNS IN JJ VBP JJ ) . DT VBG NN MD VB DT NN , DT NN VBG NN IN DT NN TO DT NN . DT VBG NNS VBP NN NN , VBD NN CC DT JJ NN TO VB , WDT MD VB RB VBG IN NN . 
NN POS NN . PRP VBP IN CD , '' PRP$ NN VBD RB IN PRP$ JJ JJ IN NNP . '' VBP JJ PRP VBP RB VB TO VB DT , CC PRP RB MD VB DT NN . VBZ RB JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . '' RB , EX VBD , '' PRP VBD . CC JJ NN VBD PRP RB IN NN . '' IN DT VBZ RB RBR JJ , '' PRP VBD RB . NNS VBP TO VB PRP . '' NNP . DT JJ NN . PRP RB VBD JJ NN , IN PRP$ NN IN NNS IN NN , JJ NNS IN PRP$ NNS CC NNS VBD IN NNS IN PRP$ NN TO PRP$ NN . PRP VBD RB RB VB TO VB IN DT JJ NN . PRP RB VBD TO VB VBN IN DT NN . RB RB PRP MD VB DT JJ NN . DT NN NN VBN IN PRP$ NN . DT NN PRP VBD TO DT VBN NN IN DT NN , DT JJR PRP VBD PRP$ JJ NN VBD VBG CC VBD IN IN NN . WP VBZ JJ IN DT NN . 
PRP VBD RB IN DT NN NN , CC NNP VBD DT NN NNP NN CC DT JJ NN . PRP VBP RB VB WP PRP VBD : NN NN CC IN JJ NN , RB . NNP VBD CC , CC RB DT NN PRP VBD DT NN VBD RB JJ RB . PRP VBD PRP VBD DT NN RB CC VBG , '' RB , RB IN DT NNPS : RB IN DT NNP NNPS . '' PRP MD RB VB WRB , IN IN PRP VBD RB IN CD IN DT NNS WDT VBD VBN NN : CD VBP DT NN . '' PRP VBD VBN DT NN IN CD : DT NN , DT NN CC DT JJ RB VBN IN DT JJ NN NN : CC PRP VBD IN DT JJ CD VBD VBG IN DT NN JJ NN , VBG IN NNS VBG RB CC RB VBG IN TO JJ NNS RB DT NN . NNP NNP VBD IN NNS CC JJ NNS . '' MD VB DT NN NN CC DT NN RB RB , '' PRP VBD RB . MD VB DT JJ NN . '' CC PRP VBD IN DT NNS WP VBD VBN TO VB DT JJ NN : CD IN WP VBZ NNP POS JJ JJ NN , NNP NNP : VBD JJ TO VB NNS IN NNS VBD VBN IN NN CC NN . IN CD NN VBD , DT NN MD RB VB IN NN : EX MD VB RB NN TO VB DT NN , IN PRP MD VB TO IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT NNS IN RB CD NN . 
PRP VBZ DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBD PRP VBD PRP MD RB VB RB IN DT JJ NN . DT , RB , VBZ JJ . JJR IN NN IN DT NNS VBG NNS VBP VBN NNS , DT NN WDT VBD IN DT CD POS CC VBZ RB VBN IN CD , VBG TO DT JJ NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP . NNP CC PRP$ NN VBP DT JJ NN VBN IN NN NNS , CC PRP VBD IN DT NN IN VBG VBN IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBD RB VBN IN RBR IN DT NN , PRP VBD , IN PRP VBD RB VB DT NN . IN DT NN , IN PRP VBD RB RB RB , PRP NN VBD CD NNS CC VB $ CD , RB CD NNS WP PRP MD VB NN IN PRP VBD VBN IN IN CD NNS . '' VBP PRP PRP MD VB PRP$ NN RP IN NN , '' PRP VBD . VB IN PRP$ NN VBZ JJ NNS , DT NN VBZ TO VB PRP . CC PRP RB VBP . '' 
IN CD JJ NN , DT NN VBD IN NNS WP$ NNS VBD IN JJ NN RBR JJ NN IN NNS . RB DT NN IN CD NNS , NNS VBP VBN PRP$ NNS TO DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , WRB DT NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP VBZ VBN . RB , IN NNP , PDT DT NNS MD RB VB RB . VB MD VB VBG CD NNS : VB DT NN NNS RBR JJ TO VB VBN TO NN NNS , CC NN NN NNS . '' NNP NNP VBD . DT NN POS JJ NN CC DT NNS WP VBD NN MD VB DT JJ TO VB DT NNS . IN NNP NN , DT NN MD VB VBN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP . CD IN DT RBR JJ NNS MD VB : MD DT NN VBD DT NN POS NN IN NN . PRP VBZ VBG TO VB IN PRP VBP NNS CC RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC PRP VBP VBG NNS IN NNS , VB POS NN PRP VBP DT JJ NNS RB . '' 
NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP WP VBD DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS , VBD IN IN EX VBD JJR JJ IN NNS , EX VBD DT NN IN NN NNS . NNS MD RB VB DT JJ NN VBD IN JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD , VBG DT NN IN JJ NN . PRP VBD IN DT NNS MD VB NNS IN NNP NNP IN DT NN NN IN NN NN NNS VBD VBG VBN . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN CC NN IN NN NN CC NN IN NNP NNP , VBD IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS VBD RBR JJ NN . EX VBZ JJR VBG IN , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT NN NN VBZ RP IN DT NN RB RB IN CD TO CD , WRB NN VBD RB RB VBN TO VB DT NNS IN NN NN NNS . VB DT VBZ RB RB JJ IN JJ NN TO VB DT NN IN NNS , '' '' NNP NNP VBD , VBG IN JJ NNS MD VB VBG IN JJ JJ NN NNS . 
DT NN VBD RB RB VBP TO VB IN NNP TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT CD NN TO VB VBG PRP$ NN . IN CD , NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , RB IN NNP NNP , VBD DT NNS IN RB DT CD JJ NN NNS CC VBD PRP IN TO NNP , IN DT NN VBG IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP . VBG NN IN NN POS JJ NN TO VB CC VB NNS IN CD NNS , PRP VBD DT CD CD NNS IN NNS IN DT JJ NN NN TO VB DT JJ NN . NNP VBD DT NN NN , WDT VBP RB RB VBN RB IN JJ NN . CD NNS RB , PRP VBD IN DT NN IN IN CD IN NN IN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . PDT DT NNS VBD JJ . IN NN , NNP VBZ RB JJ : VB PRP WP PRP VBZ IN VBG DT JJ NN WDT VBD RB CD CD NNS , CC PRP VBZ RB IN PRP CC VBZ DT JJ NN . CC DT JJ NN IN DT NN POS NN VBD TO PRP . 
IN PRP VBP VBN IN DT NN , IN PRP MD RB VB PRP , '' PRP VBD , '' PRP RB VB PRP IN NN VBZ IN VBG DT NN TO VB DT NN . '' NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD TO VB PRP$ NNS VBG RP IN NN , RB IN DT JJ NN . RB , NNP POS NN NN , JJ RB IN DT NN , VBZ VBG VBN IN JJR CC JJR NNS CC NNS . CD WRB PRP VBD EX VBD RB JJ JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . MD PRP VB PRP$ NNS VBG . PRP MD RB NN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN NN . '' PRP VBD PRP VBZ VBN DT NNS VBG NNS , CC NNS VBP DT JJ NN . CC NNS VBP DT RB NN NN , DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . NNS VBP RB VBN TO VB VBG VBN . PRP VBP IN DT NN PRP VBD NNS VBG NN , CC PRP MD RB VB PRP IN PRP , IN PRP VBP RB VB PRP IN NN . '' 
NNP NNP VBD VBG JJ NNS IN CD IN NNP , RB VBD TO NNP . PRP VBZ IN PRP$ NN VBZ DT JJ JJ NN IN NNS MD VB IN PRP$ NNS , CC IN PRP$ JJ NN IN VBN NN , NN IN NNP IN DT NN CC RB RB JJ TO DT NN , VBZ PRP DT NN . PRP RB VBZ DT NN , RB VBN IN NNS IN JJ NNS , TO VB NNS IN DT NN . NNS VBP DT RB JJ NN IN VBG RB NN JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN . NNS VBP JJ NNS CC JJ NNS IN NNP NNP , CC EX VBZ DT NN IN DT NN NN . PRP VBP TO DT NNS IN CD IN NN CC DT NN VBZ RB . NNP VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ TO VB IN CD NNS DT NN . PDT DT JJ NNS VBP VBG VBZ VBG DT NN CC VBG DT NNS IN RB . '' 
DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP , DT NN NN WDT VBZ PRP VBZ JJR IN CD NN NNS , VBD DT NN IN PRP$ NNP NN : CD DT NN VBZ NNP VBD DT NN TO VB JJ NNS IN VBG NNP TO VB CC JJ NNS IN JJ NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN . '' IN DT NN , JJS JJ NNS VBP NN . NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP POS NNP NN VBG DT NNS CC VBD NNS IN NNP , VBG IN JJR NN VBZ VBN . '' JJ NNS TO NNP NN VBP VBG VBN IN DT NN IN NN IN JJ NN NN , NNP NNP VBD . RB VBN IN DT NN IN NN NNS , NN VBZ RB VBN TO VBN NN NN . CC VBD DT NN IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ JJ IN JJ NN NN MD VB NNS TO VB DT JJ NN RBR IN DT JJ NN RBR . DT NN VBZ , IN WP NN . PRP VBP PRP MD VB DT RB JJ NN . '' 
DT NN VBZ VBN TO VB VBN JJ IN DT NNP IN NNP , CC PRP MD VB NN TO DT JJ NN IN NNS NNS CC DT NNS TO VB JJ NN NNS TO NNS WP VBP RB VBN IN NN NNS PRP VBP TO NNP NNP NN . PRP MD RB VB DT JJ JJ NN IN IN NNP NNP VBZ VBN TO DT NN IN JJ NNS , VBG NN . DT NNP NNP NN VBD IN EX VBD POS JJ NN '' IN DT NN VBZ NN , DT NN VBN IN JJ NNS . DT NN IN DT NN NN IN DT NN VBD VBN JJ TO DT NNP NNP NNP IN DT NN NN WP VBD RB TO VB VBN . DT JJ NN VBZ RB VB DT JJ NNS IN NNS IN DT NN WP VBD VBN TO VB NNS , CC PRP VBD IN VBG TO VB DT NNS TO DT CD CD NNS IN DT NNP NNP . VBG TO DT NNP NNP NNP , CD CD NNPS , CC IN CD NN IN DT NN , VBP NNS . 
DT NN POS NNS VBP VBN VBN IN CD NNS . DT JJ VBD CD NNS RB WRB DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBD RB VBN RP IN IN NNS VBG DT VBN NN IN NN NNS , NNS CC NN NN IN NNS VBG DT NN NN . IN DT JJ CD NNS , NNS WDT VBD RB VBN : TO CD CD IN CD : JJ . NNS IN NNS JJ VBD CD NN IN NNS IN NNP , DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN WDT VBD DT NN IN DT NN , VBD CD NN , VBG TO DT NN VBN DT NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP . JJ NN VBN IN NN NNS VBD IN CD CD NNS VBD NN NN IN CD , CC IN VBD VBN TO CD CD IN NNP CD . NNP NNP , NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , DT JJ NN NN , VBD IN NNS VBN TO VB RB VBN IN JJ NNS CC JJR NNS VBG IN JJ NNS . IN PRP VBP VBN IN RB VBZ NNS VBG JJ NNS IN NN , '' PRP VBD . 
POS NN VBD IN VBG VBD RB NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC , PRP VBD , NNP . NNP VBD DT IN NN CC NN . '' RB , PRP VBD DT NN : NN RBR CC VB JJR . DT NN 
JJ IN NNP POS JJS JJ NNS MD VB VB DT NN IN DT NN , CC NNS WP$ NNS VBP VBN EX MD VB VBN TO NNP IN NN NNS CC JJ NNS , NN IN JJ NNP NNS MD VB VB CC VB JJ IN . DT NN MD VB NNP NNP POS NN IN VBG JJR IN DT NN POS NN IN JJ NN IN DT JJR NN IN NNS . JJ NN TO JJ NN VBZ JJ TO JJ NNS IN NN , DT NNS VBD . JJ NN VBZ DT NNP . CD NN WDT NNS VBP IN JJ NNS IN NN , CC NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS IN NN VBP VBN RB IN NNS IN IN NNS . IN NN , IN DT JJ NN IN JJR IN CD NNS IN NNP WDT VBD IN CD , RB CD NN VBD VBN NN NN CD NNS IN NN , VBN IN JJ NNS VBP TO CD NN , NNP NNP VBD . VBN IN DT NN , DT NN VBD IN RB CD NN IN DT NNS VBD NN , CC DT RBS JJ , NNS . IN DT NN POS NN , DT NN VBZ VBN TO CD NN , NNP NNP VBD . 
CD , DT VBZ DT JJ NN , '' VBZ NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP . JJ NN WP VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN IN NNS . NNS IN NNP VBD NN IN DT . PRP VBP , DT NN PRP VBP PRP VBZ , IN PRP VBP IN VBG DT IN DT JJ NN , JJR NN TO PRP . '' NN IN NNP DT NN IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD RB IN NNP VBD PRP$ NNS CC NNP VBD RB . ( DT NN VBD IN NNP VBD DT JJ TO VB PRP$ JJ NNS : PRP RB VBD PRP . ) DT NN VBD NN . NN VBD NNP IN PRP$ NNS VBD JJ CC DT NNS MD VB PRP . IN PRP VBD JJ TO VB PRP$ NNS IN VBG PRP$ NNS IN NN VBD PRP$ NN . IN JJ NNS , PRP VBD VBN , CC PRP VBD NN . IN DT NN , DT NN VBZ RB IN NNS VBP DT NN TO VB PRP$ NNS : PRP VBZ WRB JJ NN MD VB VBN ( RB CC RB ) TO VB PRP IN DT NN TO VB RB . 
NNP IN NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN TO CD IN DT NN POS JJS JJ NNS , NNP NNP POS JJ VBZ DT JJ NNS , PRP$ NNS CC DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS . PRP VBZ VBG JJ . MD RBS JJ , VBG , VBG , JJ , VBG NN IN DT NNP , '' PRP VBZ , '' IN PRP RB VBZ . EX VBZ RB RB CD NN NN , RB RB CD JJ NN TO VB , RB RB CD NN IN NN CC NN CC NN . '' NNP NNP VBZ PRP$ NNS TO DT VBG NN WP VBZ IN DT NN CC RB IN DT NN , VBN IN NNS IN JJ NNS . NNP NN VBZ , VBP RB PRP VB PDT DT JJ NN . '' DT NN VBZ PRP$ NN CC NNS : NN VBZ RB DT JJ . DT NNS VBP DT JJ . DT VBZ DT NN . '' EX VBZ DT JJ NN VBD JJ TO PRP$ NN POS NN CC VBG RB . RB PRP VBZ RB , '' VBP VBG TO VB PRP , NN , PRP VBP PRP IN . '' 
POS JJS NN MD RB VB PRP VB PRP$ NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , CD , DT JJ NN WP VBD VBG IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN VBD CD NNS . DT NNP NNP NNP VBD TO VB TO VB NN CC TO VB DT JJ NN IN NNS . ( DT WP VBP PRP$ JJ NNS VBP IN NN DT JJ NN . ) IN DT NNP NN , DT NNS VBG DT NNP NNP NN VBD DT WP VBP NNS JJ . PRP VBD RB IN PRP$ CD POS , RBR JJ TO VB JJ CC JJ IN DT NN NN . JJS VBD RB NNS , JJ JJ . PRP VBD IN DT NN IN NN IN CD NN CC DT : DT JJ JJ NN , DT JJ NN , DT NN NN NN WDT RB VBD RB VB . JJR IN NN IN DT NNS WP VBP NNS VBP PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN PRP VBD , VBG TO DT NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN WDT VBZ NN NNS . 
IN DT IN DT NNS TO VB DT NN , PRP MD VB VB DT RB JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP WP VBD IN NN NN NNP CD . DT NN IN NN VBZ RB VBN VBN IN PRP$ NNP NN , DT JJ NN NNS CC DT NNP NN WRB PRP VBD , CC NNS VBD RB JJ TO VB IN PRP MD VB VBN NN NN IN WP PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN NN . DT NN IN NN VBN IN DT NNP NN : DT JJ NN VBN IN NNP : VBZ RB JJ TO VB NN NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP JJ NN NN . CC PRP$ NN VBZ NN TO DT VBG NN IN NN CC JJ NNS IN NNP NNP , IN IN PRP$ JJ NN , MD VB VBN VBN IN DT NN IN DT CD TO CD NNS IN NNS VBP VBP JJ TO VB DT JJ NN . 
NN IN NNP POS NN NNS IN DT NNS VBZ RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC MD NN VB NNS IN DT NN IN VBG NNP POS , PRP VBD , VBG : NN WP VBP VBG TO VB PRP$ NN IN NNP POS NN MD RB VB DT NNS IN DT NNS IN NN NNS VBP IN CC PRP MD VB DT NNS CC IN DT NNS . '' PRP VBD PRP VBD JJ , CC RB JJ , IN DT NNS IN DT NN MD VB VBN DT NN IN PRP VBD VBN VBN IN DT JJR NN . IN DT NNS IN CD NN VBD RB RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' VBP RB VBG TO VB DT RBR NN NN . '' RB , PRP VBZ VBG IN JJ JJ NNS , VBG NNP NNS , WDT MD JJR NNS IN NN , DT NN NN VBD TO VB DT NN IN NN NN CC NNP POS . DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBZ TO VB NNS WDT MD VB DT NN , NN NN , WDT VBZ TO VB TO DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NN . 
DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP VBZ VBN IN NNS VBP DT JJ IN VBG JJ NNS , VBG NN NN NN : DT RBR JJ NN IN NN NN : NN , NN NNS CC JJ NN : CC NN NN IN NNP CD NNS , NN CC JJ NN . DT NNS VBP NNS MD RB VB RB IN JJ NNS IN JJ NN IN IN PRP$ NN IN NN . CC VBZ CD JJ NN IN DT JJ NN CC DT JJ NN IN DT NNS IN JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN CD IN CD NNP NNS VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP DT NN , VBD . CD NN IN NN VBZ JJ DT JJ NN WRB JJ NN VBZ TO VB JJ NN NN , '' PRP VBD . DT NNS VBP RB VBG IN DT JJ NN NN TO VB TO DT NN : NN , DT NN WDT VBZ DT NN TO VB CC VB RP NN NNS . 
CD NN VBG NN VBG NN TO NN VBZ DT JJ , IN WP NN VBZ DT RB JJ NN . NNS VBP IN NNP NNS IN JJ NNS VBP VBN JJ TO VB IN DT NNS . IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP , IN NN , NNP NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN JJ NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN CC NN IN NN . JJ NNS NNP IN DT NN IN JJR IN DT JJ IN DT NN POS NN . RB PRP VBP RB VBG NN TO DT NN , '' PRP VBD . CC MD VB DT NNS IN JJ NN . '' JJS JJ NNS VBP JJ NN IN VBG DT NN IN NN . NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN RB CC DT NNS VBP VBN . NNP , JJ NNS VBP PRP$ NN NNS . NNS MD VB JJR NNS CC NN VBD , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP NN WP VBZ NN IN DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP . CC EX MD RB VB JJ NNS : IN PRP VBP RB JJ , NNS MD VB . 
NNP , WDT VBZ RB VBN IN NN : DT NN VBZ VBN IN NNP NNP '' CC CD NNS TO VB DT NNP . '' : VBD , IN JJ NN IN DT NN VBD VBN IN JJ NNS '' IN DT NN NN , DT NN VBD . NNP NNP , DT NNP NN , VBD RB , '' VBD VBN DT NN , CC PRP VBD PRP VBD RBR JJ IN PRP$ NN NN CC PRP VBD PRP TO PRP . '' NNP NNP VBD TO VB DT NN , DT NN VBD . NNP NNP VBD JJ NN NNS CC NN NNS IN RB , VBG NNP , NNP , NNP , NNP CC NNP , NNS NNS VBD . DT NN IN CD NN VBD DT NN , WDT MD VB VBN PRP$ NN JJ NN NN CC MD VB VBN JJ NNS TO NNP NNP , VBD VBN DT NN PRP VBP NNS . '' DT NN VBD DT VBN JJ NN IN DT NN IN VBG DT JJ JJ NN VBD VBN IN DT NN IN DT JJ CD NNS . '' 
NN NNS VBP VBN TO VB IN DT JJ NN : NN RB DT JJ NN VBZ VBG TO VB NN NNS . CC NNS WP VBD VBN IN PRP$ NN IN IN JJ NN VBP VBG TO VB PRP MD VB PRP JJ IN DT NN NN WDT MD VB RP NNS . IN NN VBZ , RB , JJ JJ NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS . PRP VBZ DT RB JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . NNS VBP TO VB RB JJ IN VBG NN IN NN WRB PRP VBP IN JJ NNS IN DT NN VBZ RB JJ TO VB JJ . '' VBZ DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , CD NNS VBP RB JJ . '' DT NNP NNP DT JJ NN NNS VBP JJ NN NNS . NNS VBP NN NN . CC DT JJ NN VBZ RB RB DT JJ : NN NN CC VBG PRP RP VBZ DT NN IN JJ , NN CC NN . 
RB , NNP NNP VBZ , PRP VBZ DT JJS NN . NN VBZ RB VB DT JJ NN , CC DT JJ NN NN NN VBZ RB JJ JJ NNS CC JJ NNS . NNP NNP RB VBZ IN NN VBZ RBS . CC VBP DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBZ . IN PRP VBP NN , PRP MD VB PRP . DT JJ NNS VBP RB RB VB DT NN , PRP VBP RB IN NN , CC IN PRP VBP NN , PRP VBP TO VB DT NN . '' IN VBG VBZ JJ , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN VBG IN DT JJ NNP NNP . RB , '' NN CC VB NNS IN DT NN VBZ RB VB JJ NN TO VBG NN , CC NNS VBP VBN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NNS DT JJ NN . '' NNP NNP VBZ IN JJ NNS VBP VBN IN WDT NN PRP VBP . '' VBP PRP VBP WP NNS VBP , '' PRP VBD . CC PRP VBP RB VB PRP , PRP VBP DT NN . '' 
CC VBP DT NN . VBP RB DT JJ JJ NN NNS IN CD NN FW CD NN NN WDT NNP VBG NNS . DT JJ NN VBZ DT . PRP VBP TO VB RB WRB DT JJ NN NN VBZ VBN . PRP VBZ DT NN . VB CD NNS VBN IN NN NN CD NNS RB . IN CD VBP JJ NN , DT CD NN NN VBZ 1000 , CC CD NN . CC RB IN NNP VBG VBD DT JJ NN NN TO CD NN , PRP VBZ RB JJ IN DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN . DT JJS NN TO VB DT NN VBZ TO VB IN DT JJ NN . NNP , VB DT NN IN NNS IN NN NN WP MD DT VB IN NN CD . IN PRP RB VBP DT NN WRB PRP VBP CD , PRP$ JJ NN NN MD VB CD NN . CC IN DT JJ NNS VBD VBN PRP$ NNS RB : IN , VBP , NN CD : DT JJ NN NN MD VB CD NN . CC NN MD RB VB IN CD IN DT IN PRP . JJR NN RB VBZ DT JJ NN JJ , CC PRP VBZ RB RB VB IN NN VBZ VBN . 
NNP NNP CC JJ IN PRP$ NNS VBP NN NN IN NN . WRB PRP VBZ VB , PRP VBZ NNS IN PRP VBZ RB IN DT NN NN . IN NNP NN , IN NN , PRP VBD IN PRP VBD RB VBN DT NN IN RB DT JJ NN , CC VBD VBG DT RB JJ NN IN JJ NNS . CD MD VB VBN TO VB VBN IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . CC VBD RP RB IN PRP VBD RB JJ . '' JJ VBZ DT NN IN DT NN RB , CC RB JJ VBP DT NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT NN NNS , IN NNP NNP VBZ RB VB JJ NNS IN WP PRP VBZ , JJS PRP VBP PRP . PRP VBZ RB RB VBD PRP$ NNS CC PRP$ NN POS NNS . PRP MD VB VBN JJ IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . IN PRP VBD TO DT NN , NNP NNP VBD TO VB TO DT NN CC DT JJ JJ NN IN NN PRP VBD DT IN DT NN IN PRP CC MD VB NNS . RB , PRP VBD IN DT NN POS NN IN PRP$ NN , NNP IN NNP , VBG IN DT NN , RB IN DT JJ NN NN , VBD DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NN . 
IN DT NN IN DT NN , DT JJ NN VBD DT NN WDT NN CC NN NNS MD RB VB VBN IN JJR IN DT JJ NNS . DT JJ NNS NN TO VB RP DT NNS IN VBG TO VB NN NN RB IN DT JJ NN . PRP VBP RB JJ IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN , VBN IN CD , WDT VBD DT VBN NN IN NN NN RB IN DT NN IN NN NN . CD JJ NN VBZ IN NN NN VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN IN NN NN , NNP NNP VBD . VB DT NN VBZ DT VBN NN NN , DT JJ NN IN VBG MD VB TO DT NN NN RB RB , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP VBD IN NNS WP VBP NNS TO VB DT JJ NNS CC NN NNS WDT RB VBP RB VBP TO VB IN PRP$ JJ CD POS , IN DT PRP$ NN IN NN NN VBZ , IN NN , JJR IN CD NN IN CD NN . RB IN VBN , IN NN VBZ JJR IN CD NN . 
NNP NNP NNP NN NN , VBD NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP PRP VBP DT JJ NN IN NN . PRP$ NN VBD VBN RB IN DT NN . PRP VBD CD NNS RB . PRP VBD CD , CC PRP VBD DT NN NN . PRP VBD VBN DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN , WDT VBD RP VBG DT NN . CC PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ NN . PRP VBD RB CD NNS , RB JJ , CC MD RB VB VBN VBN IN DT NN . IN PRP VBD VBN IN PRP VBD CD TO VB PRP$ NN , PRP RB MD RB VB VBG IN PRP RB RB . PRP VBD DT NN NN , DT VBN NN NNS , IN NN CC JJ NN CC VBG DT JJ NN IN NN CD . CD NN IN NNS IN NN NN VBP DT VBN NN NNS . NN VBZ RB IN DT NN IN NN PRP$ JJS NN IN JJ NN . PRP MD RB VB DT NN RB VBG PRP . 
DT VBG NN IN DT JJ NNS VBZ VBG JJ NN . IN RB , JJ NNS VBD RB VBN IN RB JJ NN NN NNS . CC IN JJ NN , WRB DT NN VBD TO VB IN NNS IN NNS RBR NNS RB TO VB JJ NNS , JJ JJ NNS IN DT IN NNP NNP VBP VBN DT NN . CD NN VBZ IN NNS VBP RB VB IN DT NN CC NN IN NNS MD VB RB . FW NN VBZ RB VB IN PRP VBP DT NN POS JJ NN CC PRP$ CD , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN IN NNP NNP WP VBZ JJ NN NNS . TO VB JJ NN , DT NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN WDT VBZ NNS IN NNP NNP , VBD JJ JJ NN NNS CD NNS RB IN NNS WP VBD RB VBN NNS IN . CC DT NNS , IN WDT DT NN VBN NN VBZ CD NN , VBP JJ . DT NN VBZ WP NN IN NNS WP VBP RB VBN TO VB IN NNS VBP VBG DT NNS . 
DT NNS VBP RB JJ . IN NN NNS WDT MD VB DT NN , VBG NNS CC NNS MD VB PRP JJ TO VB IN NNS IN JJ NNS , IN NNP , CC NNS WDT VBP RB JJR IN PRP MD VB . CC DT NNS WDT VBP NNS IN NN NNS MD VB RP VBG JJ NNS VBG TO VB DT NNS IN NN . IN NN , NNS VBP , PRP MD VB RB JJ NNS : DT NN WDT VBZ IN RB JJ NNS IN DT NN POS NN CC JJ NNS . DT VBZ DT NNS IN NN CC RB VBZ DT NNS DT NN MD VB RP IN CD CC JJR NNS , DT NN TO VB CC NNS . NNS VBP JJ NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ NNP POS IN JJ NN NN CC CD NNS . VB DT NN VBZ RB TO VB JJ NNS . '' IN DT RB JJS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP , NNS MD VB TO VB IN DT NN WP VBD PRP TO DT NN NN VBD VBG NNS CC JJ NNS . 
DT NN NNS MD VB JJ NNP NNP , WDT MD VB DT JJ NN IN NN NN . EX MD VB NNS WDT VBP NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . VB PRP VBZ IN PRP MD VB RBR JJ IN PRP VBD . NNS VBD VBN IN PRP MD VB IN DT JJ NNS TO NNS , CC DT VBZ RB JJ TO VB . PRP MD VB IN CD NN IN NN TO DT , WDT IN JJS NNS MD RB VB IN JJ . '' IN NNP , DT NNS IN VBG NNS MD VB DT JJR JJ NNS IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , CC NNP MD VB PRP$ NN NNS VBP . JJ JJ NNS MD VB RBR JJ IN DT JJ NN IN EX VBZ JJR JJ NN IN DT NNP . NNP NNS MD VB PRP$ JJ NNS . '' IN NNP NNP NNP MD RB VB JJR , '' NNP NNP VBD . '' IN NN , JJS JJ NN VBZ IN DT NN , IN EX MD VB DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN JJ NN . JJR NNS MD VB VBG CC VBG NN DT NN , IN PRP VBD DT NN . '' 
IN DT JJ NN IN NN , NNP NNP , DT JJ , JJ , JJ NN IN DT NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN DT NN IN NN . IN JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN PRP VBD IN DT NN VBD TO DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS CC NNS . CC IN DT NN NN WDT VBZ VBN VBG IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN , JJ NNS VBP NNP NNP POS NN IN NNP CD VBD RB RB VBN IN DT NN IN NNS CC NNS VBD IN PRP$ NN TO VB IN DT NN VBD JJ . RB , IN PRP VBP IN NNS IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBP JJ IN NN , NNS CC JJ NNS IN DT NN VB JJ IN IN DT NN VBD JJ RB IN DT NN TO VB NN TO CD NN , TO NNP , CC TO DT JJ NN IN VBG NN VBG NNS IN DT NNP NNPS . 
VBN TO VB , NNS VBP IN JJ NN IN JJ JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP IN DT WP VBP VBG NNS VB IN DT NN . CC JJS WP VBP PRP VBP RB VBG TO VB NN , VBP RB CC VB PRP$ NNS RB . NNS VBP RB VB TO VB IN PRP IN VBG DT NN WDT VBZ IN PRP VBP WP PRP VBP CC RB VB NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP . NNS MD VB PRP IN DT NNS , '' NNP . NNP VBD . NNS MD VB PRP IN DT NNS . PRP MD RB VB PRP IN DT NN NN NN . NNP NN NNS VBP RB RB VB IN PRP VBP PRP$ NN VBD CC VBD . PRP VBZ DT NN IN NNS . '' 
PRP VBZ RB VBG DT NN NN IN DT NNP . WDT MD VB PRP$ NNS . PRP VBZ RB VB IN JJ NNS VBP NNS TO VB . IN DT NN PRP VBZ DT NN RB , NNS RB , PRP VBZ PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB NNP VB PRP$ NN NN . IN NN , PRP MD RB VB , CC PRP VBZ RB VB . PRP VBZ JJ TO VB VBG PRP$ NN , CC IN PRP MD , PRP VBZ IN PRP VBZ JJ . PRP MD RB VB RBR JJ : PRP VBZ VBN VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN VBZ PRP JJ : CC PRP VBZ PRP$ NN IN NN . IN PRP VBD NN NN , PRP NNS , DT NN MD VB IN NN , PRP MD VB VBN DT NN VBD JJ , CC PRP MD VB VBN NN NN . CC RB VBZ IN NN IN DT NN CC NN , IN PRP VBP VBG PRP CC PRP MD RB RB VB VBG TO PRP , '' PRP VBZ . 
DT RB VBN TO DT JJ NN , CC VB JJ NN NNS , DT NNP NNS WDT RB JJ NNS VBP NN . NNP . IN DT JJ TO CD NN , WRB VBD PRP VB WRB DT JJ NN VBD VBN . NNP PRP VBD DT VBZ DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . DT NN IN NN CC NN MD VB IN IN PRP . RB IN VBG NNS IN PRP VBP VBN TO VB NN , PRP MD , IN DT NN IN DT NN , VB JJ TO VB WP VBZ JJ TO VB JJ TO DT NN . IN DT NN TO VB JJ TO VB NN IN VBG JJ VBZ RB JJR IN VBG TO VB NN IN PRP VBZ VBN JJ . JJ IN DT RBS RB VBG NNS JJ IN NNP POS CC NN VBP JJ NNS . IN VBG JJ NNS , PRP MD VB JJ TO VB RP NNS CC RB VB DT NNS IN DT NNS . 
DT VBZ NN WDT NNP NNP , IN NNS , VBZ IN PRP MD RB VB . RBR DT NN , DT NNP NN VBD DT JJ NN IN NNS , VBG CD NNS IN NNP , DT JJ JJ NNP NNP . PDT DT NNS VBP TO VB VBN DT NN IN VBG CC VBG JJ NN . CC JJS JJ NNS VBP IN IN DT NN POS NN NNS , RB VBZ DT NN WDT RB , RB , DT NN VBN IN NNS MD VB PRP IN DT NN IN NN , VBG DT JJ . NN VBZ IN IN DT NN , DT NN MD VB : IN RB IN DT NN , RB IN DT JJ CD RB RB RB RB IN NN . DT JJS NN IN VBG PRP$ NN VBZ TO VB WRB PRP VBZ . WP VBP PRP$ NNS IN NN CC NN . WRB VBZ PRP VB DT NN POS JJ NN CC NN IN DT JJ NN TO DT JJ CD . 
IN NNP NN , PRP VBD IN DT JJ NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . IN NNS CC NNS VBD RP NN IN DT NN , DT JJ WP VBZ PRP . '' CC VBZ . '' VBD TO VB WP NN NNS MD VB IN NNP NNP . NNP NNP VBD IN NNS TO DT NN NNS VBP RB VBN VBN , CC IN NNP NNP NNP : IN DT NNP NN WRB JJ JJ NN VBZ IN NN : MD VB DT NN NN NN IN DT WP , IN WDT NN , VBP RB JJ IN DT NNS . CD NN IN DT NN NN , '' PRP VBD , '' IN PRP DT VB PRP CC VB PRP . '' 
DT IN DT NNS TO DT JJ NN : DT NN . IN DT NN NN , PRP RB VBZ DT JJ WP MD '' VBZ IN IN DT NN . CD VBZ PRP VB VBG IN DT NN . '' PRP VBZ . '' MD PRP VB DT NN . '' PRP VBZ TO VB RB NN NNS ( RB RB JJ ) CC DT NN CC NN IN DT JJ NN ( PRP VBZ RB , IN JJ NN ) . PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN RB DT RB NN PRP VBD PRP JJ NN NN . IN DT VBZ DT NN VBN RB IN JJ NN : IN DT NN DT NN VBZ PRP VBZ JJ TO RB CD NNS : NNS TO PRP$ RB IN JJ , IN RB JJR IN , DT NN IN PRP VBZ PRP TO VB DT JJ NN . NN VBZ PRP$ . JJ '' VBZ DT NN PRP VBZ , CC PRP NNS WRB PRP VBZ PRP . EX MD VB DT NN IN PRP$ : IN DT VBZ CD IN DT JJ NNS ( IN CD NN , VBG TO DT JJS JJ NNS IN NN ) WRB NN IN NN VBZ RB VB CC VB NN IN NN , DT RBS JJ NN IN NN RB , NNS JJ IN DT . CC EX MD VB DT NN TO DT NN , WRB NN VBG PRP$ NN CC NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN RB . UH NNS TO VB , DT CD VBG CD NN . '' DT NN PRP VBZ VBG NN VBZ VBN JJ IN DT JJ NN NN IN NNP , WRB PRP VBZ . NNS IN NNS VBP CC VBP RB DT NN IN NN IN NNS TO VB NNS TO NNS IN JJ NNS . CC DT NN DT JJ NN NNS VBZ RB RB DT NN . PRP VBZ DT NN WP VBD DT NN IN JJ NN IN VBG JJ NNS CC WP VBZ RB VBN VBG NN IN NN . WRB MD RB DT RBS JJ JJ NN NN RP WP TO VB . 
NNP NNP VBD VBG RB RB TO NN NNS CC RB TO JJ NNS , DT NNS WP VBP NNS CC VBG . DT NN VBD VBN CD NNS RB WRB NNP NNP NNP RB VBD DT NN VBN IN DT JJ NN TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN IN DT RB JJ NN TO VB NN IN VBG NN NN TO VBG NNS VBD TO DT NN IN NN IN NN NNS . JJ NNS VBD VBN IN DT NNS WRB NNS VBD VBN IN NN TO VB POS JJS NN : DT NN IN NNS TO RB VB . DT NNS VBD JJ NNS WRB JJ NNS VBD VBN IN DT NNP NNPS IN CD , VBG DT NN IN NNS VBG IN NN NNS IN CD NN . DT NNP NN IN NNP NNP , WDT VBD IN CD , VBD RBR NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN IN DT NN NN NN IN NN . 
RB , DT NNS VBD , IN PRP MD RB VB DT NN IN JJ NNS , DT NN NNS MD VB CC VB IN DT NN , JJ TO VB DT NN IN DT NN VBD TO NN . CC PRP MD VB RB IN JJ NNS TO VB DT NNP NN IN NN . WDT VBD IN DT NNS MD VB JJ TO VB VBG DT NNS CC VB PRP$ JJ NNS VBP PRP$ NNS . NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD TO PRP$ NN POS NNS NN CC VBD NN TO VB DT NN . CC VBD DT NN WRB NNS VBD , NNP , NN , NN CC RB VB DT NN , '' '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBD PRP VBP TO VB NN . PRP VBD , '' VBP IN IN PRP$ NN . '' '' PRP VBD DT NN TO VB NN . RB DT NN VBZ RB IN NN , IN CD NNS IN JJ NNS IN VBG NNS CC VBG RP PRP . RB RB , DT NNS VBP JJ CC VBG . CC VBP RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
MD VB IN PRP VBP VBG JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC RB VBP PRP VBP VBG VBN TO JJ NNS . '' CC DT NNS CC NNS VBP VBN DT NN IN DT NN IN NN NNS , VBD NNP NNP , NNP NNPS NN NN NN IN NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP WDT VBZ DT JJ NN NN WP$ NNS VBP VBG . DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ DT NN IN PRP$ JJ CD POS WP VBZ VBN CC VBZ TO VB NN DT JJ NNS DT NN , IN PRP VBZ IN NNS , NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP RB VB TO VB VBN IN DT JJ RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC RB VB TO VB DT NN CC RB VB TO VB IN JJ NN . '' NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN NN NN , VBD JJ NN RB IN NNP VBD VBG PRP IN NNP CD . NNP NNS VBD $ CD CD IN CD , CC DT NNP NNP NNS VBD IN NNP NNS MD VB JJ CD NNS RB . IN NN , IN CD NNP NNP VBD NNS MD VB $ CD CD IN CD , IN NNP CC NN : NNP VBD PRP MD VB $ CD CD IN CD . 
NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD , '' MD RB VB PRP IN NN MD VB RB . '' DT JJ NNS CC NNP NNP VBD IN VBG NN IN DT NN MD VB JJ IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . PRP VBD IN JJ NN MD RB VB TO VB VBN IN NNP CC IN DT JJ NN MD VB IN DT NN MD VB JJ IN NN NN . DT NN , WDT MD VB RP IN DT JJ NN , MD VB DT NN IN DT NN IN IN JJS CD NN NNS , CD NNS IN DT IN CD JJ NNS IN NN . IN VBG DT NN IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN NNS IN CD DT CC IN NNS IN JJ NN , PRP MD VB JJ TO VB NNS JJ IN NN . CC DT NN VBZ RB VBG . IN JJ , DT NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NNP , DT NN IN CD CD NNS IN DT JJ NN . RB VBG DT JJ NN IN PDT DT NNS MD VB DT NN IN CD JJ JJ NNS . IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN NNS IN CD NN , DT JJ NN MD VB IN IN DT NN IN RB . 
NN NNS IN NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS VBP IN DT JJS VBN IN DT NN , CC DT CD RB VBZ WRB . NNP NN VBZ RBR JJ IN JJ NNS . CC NNP NNP , CD IN DT CD JJ NNS IN DT NN , NNS NN NN NN IN DT NN CD NN IN DT NN , DT NN IN NN NN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ . DT NNP NNP NNS VBP JJ NNS . PDT DT NN VBZ IN NNP VBP NNS RB JJ IN JJ NNS IN DT NNP CC NNP . DT NN VBZ VBN NNS IN IN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NN VBP IN DT NN IN NN NN NNS : NN , JJ NNS , RB JJ NN . CC PRP VBZ RB VBN NN IN NNS IN DT NN MD VB NNS IN RBR JJ VBZ IN DT NN NN NN , VBG IN NN NN JJR IN PRP RB VBZ . 
DT MD VB TO VB DT NN , IN DT NNS IN NN NN VBP VBN : NNS MD VB PRP$ NNS , RB CC RB , WRB PRP VBP JJ TO VB WRB TO VB NNS CC WRB JJ TO VB . CC , IN DT NN , NNS IN WDT NN VBZ JJ CC NN VBZ RB JJ NN TO VB IN DT JJS IN NN IN NN , IN DT WDT VBP NN : RB IN NNP CC NNP NNP CC NNP : VBP NNS WDT VBP IN DT JJS . VBG TO NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP , JJ NNS IN NN NNS IN NNP NNP VBP JJ TO JJ NN TO NNS . DT NNP VBZ RB IN DT NN IN NN IN NN : IN CD IN CD NNS IN JJ NN , PRP VBZ RB IN NN IN NNP ( CD ) , RB JJR IN NNP ( CD ) CC RB JJR IN DT NNP ( CD ) . DT NNPS , WRB DT JJ NN NN RB VBZ IN DT JJS IN DT NN , VBZ RB VBN IN NN TO NN NNS IN DT NNP IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN . DT JJ NN NN NN , VBN RB NNP NNP , VBZ IN NN CD . CD IN PRP$ NN VBZ VBN VBN JJ NN '' : VBG DT NN IN DT NNS CC NN NN NNS . PRP VBZ RB JJ , '' VBZ NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NN NN NN . CC VBZ IN WRB PRP VBP NN CC NN IN NNS , PRP RB VBP JJ . CC PRP VBP IN DT NNS IN DT NNP VBP IN WRB PRP VBP NN , PRP VBP RB VBG NN , CC PRP VBP VBN IN WRB PRP VBP NNS , PRP VBP RB VB NN RBR . PRP VBP IN PRP . IN PRP VBP RB VBG NN , PRP VBP VBG PRP TO VB JJ IN VBG PRP . '' 
PRP VBD RB PRP . PRP VBD DT JJ NN CC CD IN PRP VBD PRP IN IN DT NN . PRP VBD DT NNS IN DT NN , CC PRP VBD PRP VBD DT JJ NN CC PRP MD VB IN PRP . PRP VBD , CC PRP VBD RB RB JJ WRB PRP VBD . PRP VBD RB JJ CC JJ . IN DT NN , PRP VBD DT IN PRP$ NN IN PRP : PRP$ NNS , PRP$ NN , PRP$ NN CC PRP$ NN , IN NN . DT VBD VB VB DT NN IN PRP VBD TO PRP$ NN . PRP VBD TO PRP IN DT NN . PRP VBD TO VB PRP$ NNS RB , CC WP VBZ TO VB VBN RP . PRP VBD TO DT NN IN PRP RB VBD TO VB IN PRP VBD RB PRP$ NN TO VB DT NN . PRP RB VBD IN NN . DT NN IN , PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN PRP$ CD NN . PRP VBP JJ PRP$ NN VBD VBN IN DT NN . PRP VBD RB JJ IN VBG JJ , CC IN VBG IN DT NN NN . PRP MD RB VB PRP VBD VBN DT NN RB , CC PRP VBD VBN . 
PRP MD RB WP JJS NNS MD VB VBN IN DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN NN . CC , PRP VBD , PRP VBZ VBN DT NN IN JJ NN . '' PRP VBD PRP NN VBD DT NN TO VB NN NNS IN VBG JJ NN NNS CC VBG JJ NN NNS , CC VBD DT JJ NN . NNS VBN IN DT NNP . IN DT NN PRP VBP VBG . NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN CC JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN IN PRP$ CD NNS IN DT NN , PRP VBD RB VBN DT NNP . NN NN RB JJ NN TO NN . CC UH , PRP VBP RB JJ , '' PRP VBD . NNP IN NNP NNP POS NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN CC NN IN NNP , VBZ IN PRP VBZ DT NN , RB DT NN . PRP RB VBZ DT NN WDT MD VB RB VBG . 
DT NNS VBD IN DT NN POS NN IN DT NN NN NNS IN CD NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN NN . PRP NNS RP , IN IN IN CD NNS : DT NN IN DT NN : DT VBN NN VBZ CD NN . RB , NNP NNP CC JJ NNS RB VBN TO DT NN VBD IN DT NN IN NN MD VB JJ VBG IN JJ NNS WP$ NN NN IN NN NN VBZ JJ CC WP VBP JJ JJ NNS CC NN NNS IN NN . DT NNP POS NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJR IN CD NNS , VBD VBN JJ NNP , CD NNS RB , IN NNS VBD IN NNS WP VBD NNP , DT NN IN NN CC NN , VBD DT RB JJ NN IN NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN . DT NNS RB VBD IN DT NN VBD DT NN POS NN IN NN NN , NN CC NN NNS . 
CC WRB NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN NN NN DT JJ NNS RB , PRP VBD IN DT JJ NN WP VBD PRP NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP , NNP PRP RB VBD DT JJ , JJ NN IN NNP NNP , PRP VBD , CC MD RB VB IN PRP MD VB JJR NN IN NN RB . CC PRP VBD TO DT JJ , PRP VBP JJ EX VBP JJ NNS RB , CC PRP VBP VBN TO VB JJ NN IN DT NN WP VBZ VBG TO VB VBG NN IN PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , VBD TO DT JJ NN . PRP VBD TO DT NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP , IN NNP , CC RB VBN DT JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN NN NN . PRP VBZ NN IN DT NN WRB CD VBZ IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN CC NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
DT NNS VBP VBN IN VBG DT NN IN JJ NNS VBZ JJ NNS , CC DT NNS IN DT NN VBD DT NN . RB , DT NN , WDT VBD NNS VBG CD NNS IN NNS CC CD NNS , VBD DT NN IN DT CD NN VBD RBR JJ IN DT IN NN . DT NNS VBP IN PRP$ NN POS NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN CD CC IN PRP$ NN NN VBD VBN IN DT NN IN CD NNS . PRP MD VB IN NN NN VBZ TO VB RBR IN NN CC VB IN RB JJR TO VB DT NN IN VBG NN . CC WRB DT NNS VBD PRP$ NNS TO VB DT VBG NNS IN NN PRP$ NNS VBD VBN DT NNS , PRP MD RB VB DT JJ NN . DT NNS VBP IN PRP$ NN VBZ JJ NNS . DT JJ NN NNS IN DT NN VBD JJ NNS VBD PRP$ NN IN NN NN , CC DT NNS VBP VBN IN NN NN PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN . CC RB WRB JJ NNS IN NN NN VBD VBN , DT NNS RB MD VB DT JJ NN IN NN . 
NNP NNP VBD IN JJ NN , DT JJ NN IN NN NN , VBZ CD NN TO CD NN IN DT NNS TO VB NN IN IN JJS DT NN IN NN . NN , DT JJ NN IN JJ NN , MD VB JJ NN NNS RB RB IN JJ NNS , PRP VBD . EX VBZ RB DT NN : RB CD NN IN NNS WP VBP DT JJ NN NN IN PRP . DT NNP . NNS VBP NNS CD TO CD NNS JJR IN VBD JJ IN DT JJ JJ NN . CC IN IN DT NN IN NN NN : PRP VBZ RB DT NN WDT VBZ JJ NNS CC VBZ RB RB JJ : DT JJ NN VBZ RB JJ . DT NN NN , DT NN IN DT NN , VBZ VBN IN NN IN DT NN CC VB DT NN . DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNS CC NNS VBP JJ NN , DT NN WDT VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . 
IN DT NN IN DT NN , DT NN VBD PDT DT NN . PRP VBD DT NN IN NNP NNP , WP VBD VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN IN VBG NN , RB VBG NN TO VB PRP . NNP RB WRB PRP VBP JJ , PRP VBD , NN RB DT NNS PRP VBP , CC NN DT NN IN NN IN DT JJR NN MD VB VBN IN PRP . IN NN , NNP RB VBD WRB PRP$ NN VBD VBN . IN NNP CD , PRP VBD CD NNS . CD NNS RB PRP VBD CD , VBG CD NNS IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBD NN NNS . NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN NN IN NNP . PRP VBD CD IN DT JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP NNP NNP VBD VBG . CC RB VB PRP$ NN , '' PRP VBD . VB CC VB RB RB WRB PRP VBP . '' CC DT VBD VBN . NNP NNP VBD IN JJ NN , VBG NNP POS NN CD NNP NNP '' TO PRP$ NNS CC VBG PRP VBD PRP$ NN . PRP VBD TO NNP NNP IN NNP NN NNP '' CC TO PRP$ NN NNP NNP NNP : NN PRP DT NN , PRP VBP . DT JJ . '' CC IN CD NNS , PRP VBD VBG NN VBZ PRP$ NN VBD TO NNP . NNP VBD PRP JJR CC RBR JJ VBG NN . '' 
NNS VBP RB VB NNS MD VB IN DT NN IN DT JJ VBG NNS , '' NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP , VBD IN DT NN JJ NN . DT NN IN NN NNS VBZ VBN IN JJ NN , WRB NNS VBD DT NNS TO DT JJ NN IN NN . CD NNS IN NNP , DT NN POS JJS NN NN , VBD NNP , DT RBS JJ NN NN , TO JJ NN , DT NN IN DT NNS VBZ TO VB VBN . RB IN DT JJ JJ NN NN IN NNP DT NN , NNP NNPS NNS IN NNS IN NN NN VBP VBN JJ , VBN IN DT CD NN NN IN NNS IN DT . DT $ CD CD CC RB IN DT NNS VBN RB RB VBP RB CD NN IN DT JJ NN NN NN . CC NNP VBZ TO VB NN NN , RB IN DT NN IN NNP . NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP , VBD DT NN VBD DT NN IN NN NNS TO VB IN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS IN CD . NNP , DT JJ NN NN , VBN IN NNP CC NNP , VBZ DT JJ JJ NN . 
NNP NNP VBZ DT NN IN NN NNS , VBG NNS TO VB NN CC NNS TO VB NN NN , MD VB JJ IN DT NN . CC CC PRP CC NNS VBP JJ NNS IN WRB NNS VBP VBN RB RB . CD NN VBZ JJ NNS VBP VBN IN NNS MD VB NNS RB , IN PRP$ NNS VBP PRP . IN PRP$ NN IN DT NNP , NNP NNP VBZ , '' NN NN VBD , '' VBP VBG TO VB DT NN JJ CC PRP VBP RB VB TO VB NNS NNS , '' NNS VBD IN CC VBD , '' VBZ DT JJ NN TO VB . DT NN IN NNS VBP RB VB PRP$ NNS , PRP$ NN CC WRB CC WRB TO VB NNS RB . '' POS IN CD NN , DT NN VBZ RB NN , PRP VBD , CC IN DT JJ PRP VBZ NNS NNS IN VBG JJR NN TO NNS PRP VBP . 
NNP JJ NN NNS MD RB VB DT JJ NN IN NN VBN TO VB JJ NNS . JJ NNS IN DT NN TO DT JJ VBP VBG VBN TO VB DT JJ NN VBG JJ NN NNS . DT NNS VBP VBN IN VBG JJ NN , WDT DT NNS VBP IN JJ NN . RB , PRP MD VB JJ IN DT JJ NNS TO VB RP TO DT NN IN JJ NN NNS , WDT VBP CD NNS WDT VBP PRP JJ IN JJ NN . PRP VBP JJ , IN DT PRP MD VB VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN IN DT NN , IN JJS IN NN . CC PRP MD VB RB VBN IN NN , VBG DT JJ NN IN NNS . WP VBZ VBZ DT NN IN DT JJ NNS . NNP NNP NNP : DT VBP DT RBS RB VBN NN . NNP NNS , IN DT NN NN CC NN , VBP JJ NNS IN NN NNS IN DT NN VBZ TO VB PRP$ NNS . 
CC NNP NNP , RB CD , VBD : POS NN VBD RB VB IN CD NNS . PRP MD RB VB , CC PRP VBD VBG NN . DT NN VBD JJ , CC PRP VBD TO VB VBN IN DT NN NN NN . IN NN , IN CD NNS , PRP VBD DT NN , DT NN IN PRP$ NN . '' NNP NN RB VBZ NNS IN VBP IN NN , IN NNS , JJ NN NN CC JJ NN . DT VBD DT NN IN NNP NNP , WP VBD PRP RB RBR VBN TO VB NNS NNS IN PRP$ NN NN NNS VBD IN NN . NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP , VBZ IN CD TO CD NN NNS MD VB VBN DT NN , RB IN CD IN CD . DT NN IN NNS VBG DT NN POS VB JJR IN CD NN IN DT WP VBP PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP . 
IN PRP VBD VBN IN NNP POS NN CD NNS RB , IN DT RB JJ NN IN CD , PRP VBP NN PRP MD IN DT NN POS JJ NN '' : DT JJ NN IN NN . DT JJ NN VBZ JJ : DT JJ NN IN JJ CC JJ NN . DT VBZ RB VBG TO VB TO PRP , PRP VBD , IN PRP VBD VBG PRP$ JJ NN . PRP VBP JJ IN IN PRP MD VB JJ TO VB IN NNS IN NN , RB IN NN NN . RB IN JJ NNS PRP MD VB JJ TO VB RP VBG NNP , DT JJS NN IN NNP POS CC CD WDT VBZ PRP$ NN IN NN . RB JJR NNS MD VB JJ , PRP VBD PRP . RB WRB VBD RB PRP VBP DT NN IN NNS IN NNP NNP VBD JJ TO VB DT JJ NN CC NN JJ NN NNS IN PRP . IN DT , CD IN DT NNS VBD PRP$ NN VBD VBN TO VB NNS , CC TO VB DT NNS IN NNS '' : CC CD IN DT NNS VBD JJS RB VBD NNP POS . NNS VBP PRP MD CD NN VB DT NN TO VB NN NNS IN NN NNS TO VB DT NNS WDT VBP VBN CC VBN IN NNP POS . 
IN JJ NNS IN DT NN POS CD RBS JJ JJ NNS JJ NN , NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS VBN RP PRP$ NN IN NN NN NN . NNP . NNP , NNP , NNP NNP ( DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC DT JJ NN IN NNP ) CC NNP NNP NNP ( JJ NN IN DT NNPS IN DT NNP NNP NNP ) VBD DT NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP VBG IN DT JJ NN . PRP VBD VBN IN CD JJ NNS . DT NN RB , NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP VBG IN JJ NNS VBD VBG DT NN IN DT NNP NN NN NN . NNP . WRB VBZ DT NNP NNPS VBP TO JJ JJ NNS IN NN NN VBZ . DT . PRP VBP RB RB RB JJ IN NN NN : $ CD IN NN IN CD : IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS , RB PRP RB VBP JJR IN CD CD JJ . 
NN POS DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP RB VBD DT NN IN DT NN TO DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNPS . CD IN DT NNS VBP JJ NNS , CC PRP VBP RB VB JJ NN , CC PRP VBP RB VB NN . '' NN IN , NN NNS VBP DT NN IN VBG NNS IN NN NNS . NNS VBP , CC IN DT NNS RB DT NN IN DT NNS WP VBP RP IN NN NNS IN DT NN IN NN VBP VBN . RB IN DT WP VBP NNP , DT JJ NN VBP VBN IN JJ NN TO VB NN NNS . CC MD VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN NN '' MD VB NNS VB JJ JJ NNS NNS MD VB IN NN IN , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP CC DT JJ NN NN NN . '' TO VB DT NN IN NN NN NNS , DT NN IN NN NN , IN NNS , IN JJ NNS IN NNS . '' 
PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN CD CC DT NN NNS TO VB '' IN DT NN CC DT CD CC DT NN TO VB DT NN RB RB , NNP NNP VBD . VB RB VB DT NN VBZ PRP VBP RB VBN IN DT NN RP , '' PRP VBD . '' WRB PRP VBP RB IN PRP MD VB IN DT NNS WDT VBD RB VBN RB . '' PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NN VBD IN CD NN IN DT NN , CC DT NN IN DT NN NN VBD CD NN JJR . '' JJ CD NN VBZ JJ NNS CC JJ NNS , CC PRP$ NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NNS CC VB DT CD IN PRP VBZ VBN CD NN IN DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT NN VBZ VBN TO NNP NNP , DT NN WDT VBZ JJ NN NNS . NNP NNP VBD CD CC CD NN NNS VBP VBG RB JJ JJ NNS VBG JJ NN TO DT JJ NN . '' 
PRP VBD JJ JJ NNS VBD RB VBN IN DT NNS VBD TO VB JJR NN IN DT NN IN RB VBN . DT JJ NNP NNPS NNP , DT NN IN NN , VBZ VBN TO VB JJR IN $ CD CD TO VB NNS VBN IN NNS , CC NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN , VBZ VBN $ CD CD . NNP , DT NN '' NN IN DT NN NNS , VBZ RB VBN VBN IN NN NNS CC VBZ IN DT NN . DT NN IN NNP NNP VBD DT NN VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NN . 
POS PRP$ NN , PRP VBP TO NNS , '' PRP VBD . CC IN NNP , NNP NNP POS NN , NNP NNP , VBZ RB RB JJ TO PRP$ CC TO DT NN RB . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD PRP NNS TO VB JJ NNS , CC RB NN VBP , CC RB DT NN TO VB IN DT NNP NN . IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , PRP VBZ RP VBG IN IN CD NNS DT NN , WDT VBZ PRP CC DT NN IN DT JJ NN . DT WP VBP IN JJ JJ NNS VBP PRP$ PRP VBD VBN IN JJ NN NNS , PRP VBD . NNP JJ NN NNS RBR IN DT NNS IN NN , NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ TO RB VB RB IN PRP$ NNS , VBG RP PRP$ NN NN NN CC PRP$ NN NN , VBG NNS IN DT NN NN , VBG IN PRP$ NN TO VB NNS RB IN DT NN CC IN PRP$ NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN . 
IN VBG IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN VBG TO VB DT NN IN NN . PRP VBD RB , VBN IN VBG DT JJ POS JJ , '' IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN IN VBG DT NN VBN TO JJ NN CC NN IN NN . '' PRP VBD PRP . VBG . WRB VBD PRP RB . WRB NNS VBD DT NNS . '' NNP NNP MD VB JJ , CC PRP VBZ RB IN NN CC DT NN TO VB . DT JJ NN IN NN , VBZ DT NN , '' VBD RB DT NN IN NN CC NN , PRP VBD . IN RB EX VBP VBN JJ NNS . VBG VBN NN VBZ JJ CC JJ , IN VBN NN VBD RB JJ . IN PRP$ NN IN JJ NN , '' DT NN NNS CC VBZ NN . PRP VBP DT VBZ DT NN IN DT NN POS NN : NNS MD VB IN NN IN PRP$ NN , IN NNS CC NNS IN PRP$ JJ NNS . 
NNS NN RB DT JJ NNS . DT JJ NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS IN RB . PRP$ JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN . PRP MD RB VB VB , NNS CC NN , CC PRP MD RB VB JJ TO VB NNS , RB . CC IN RB NN IN DT NNS IN PRP$ NN VBP RB VBN . DT NNS VBP VBN JJ . RB , PRP VBP NNS JJ NN , CC DT VBZ IN JJS NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS . NNS VBP RB JJ NNS , PRP VBP NNS IN DT JJ NN . IN DT NN DT NNS MD VB VBN TO VB NN , CC VB JJ NN . IN NN , NNP NN VBZ DT JJ NN WDT VBZ NNS VBG IN CD NNS : PRP MD RB VB CC VB , PRP VBP NNS CC RB VB JJ CC JJ IN NN . RB EX VBD DT NN TO VB NNS IN PRP VBD IN NN . NNS VBG DT NN IN VBG IN DT NNS VBD DT NN TO VB DT NN CC VB DT NN . NNP NNS IN DT NN VBD NN CC NN TO VB DT NN . 
IN DT JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN NN . PRP MD VB RB VBN IN VBG PRP$ NN IN CD . RB , PRP MD VB VBN IN DT JJ NN . CC NNP NNP , DT JJ NNP NNPS JJ NN NN NN WP VBZ VBG NN IN NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBZ VBG PRP$ JJ JJ NN IN VBG DT NN CC NN RB RB IN PRP MD IN CD TO CD NNS . ( NNP , IN NN , IN PRP VBP VBN DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN PRP$ NN RB . ) DT IN DT NNS PRP VBD VBP DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN CC DT JJ NN VBG CD JJ NNS , DT NNS , DT NN CC DT NN . RB VBN CC VBN IN DT NN , DT NN VBZ RP DT NN POS JJ NNS . IN DT NNS VBP JJR CC JJR DT JJ , PRP VBD JJ NNS RB PRP VBD PRP IN . NNP POS NN NNS VBD DT RBS JJ , RB IN JJ NNS IN VBG . DT NNP NN VBD DT JJS CC DT JJS JJ . ( DT NN IN NNP VBD DT NN MD VB DT JJR NN IN JJ NN . ) 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN IN DT NN IN DT NN CC JJ NN IN NN NN CC DT NNS VBD IN IN DT NNP NN , WDT VBP TO VB RB IN JJ NN NNS IN PRP VBP MD VB DT JJ NN . '' PRP VBD DT VBN NN NN , NN , DT NN , CC VBG RB IN NN . PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN NN NNS VBD WP PRP VBD DT JJ NN CC WRB PRP MD VB WRB JJ NNS VBP NN NNS . DT JJ NNP NNS VBD PRP VBD IN DT JJ NN NNS CC VBD TO DT NN IN NN NN NNS IN NNP NNP VBD JJR RB IN RB JJ NNS VBD TO VB JJ NNS CC VBD JJ NNS WDT VBD PRP JJ TO VB NN . NNP NNP CC DT NNS IN DT NN NN NNS VBD IN DT JJ NN NN , WDT VBZ VBG VBN RP IN NN IN DT NNP NNP NN NN NN , MD VB JJ . DT NN MD VB NNS IN NN NN NNS CC JJ CC JJ NNS TO DT NN IN JJ NNS . DT VBP JJ NN NN , JJ NN NNS , JJ NNS , NNS CC JJ NNS , CC NN CC JJ NN NN , VBG NN NNS . 
NN POS DT JJ NN , RB DT NN IN NNS IN RB , '' VBZ NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN . CC VBP PRP VBP RB VBG TO VB JJ IN DT NN VBZ , '' JJ , '' CC PRP VBP CC PRP VBP PRP RB VBD DT CD NN . '' WP VBZ DT NNP NN IN JJS NNS VBZ PRP$ JJ NN IN RB VBG NN . DT NNS VBZ IN NN NNS , IN WDT DT NNS VBP IN DT NN IN NNS . JJ NN NNS RB VBP RB CD JJ NN . IN NNP PRP VBP RB IN JJS CD NNS DT NN . RB RB VBP DT NNS VBP DT NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS : PRP RB VBP NN IN DT WP VBP RB . RB DT NN , NNP NNP RB VBZ RP NNS IN JJ NNS VBD , VBN IN JJ NNS , IN DT NNS MD VB DT NNS CC VBP PRP$ NNS TO NN . WP VBZ PRP$ NN NN PRP , EX VBP DT NNS WDT VBD RB RB JJ , '' '' VBZ CD IN DT NNS , NNP NNP NNP . 
NNP NN , DT NN VBN TO VB NN NNP , MD VB DT JJ NN '' IN JJ NNS IN DT NNP NN , NNP NNP VBD . IN DT NN POS , NNP NNP NNP , RB IN DT NNP IN NNP CC RB IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD IN JJ NN , VBN IN DT NNS IN NNS , VBD NNS WRB DT NNS VBD RB VBN TO DT NN WDT VBZ DT JJ NN . DT NN VBD JJ NN RB RB TO VB PRP JJ IN DT NN IN NNS . CC DT NN NNS MD VB JJ IN DT RBR JJ NN IN NNP , NNP NNP VBD . RB , PRP VBZ JJ NN '' IN DT NN MD VB IN NNP , PRP VBD . DT NN VBZ RB VBG IN JJ JJ NNS , IN VBG NNS TO DT NNP NN IN DT NN IN NNS WP VBP VBN IN DT NN . NNS MD RB VB IN NNS WDT VBP JJ VBZ DT NN VBZ IN NN , IN NNS . DT NN VBZ VBN JJ IN VBG NNS IN NNP . DT NNS VBN TO VB DT NNS VBP RB VBN TO VB IN NNP IN DT NNS VBP JJ , CC DT NN MD VB VBN . 
NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBN VBG IN JJR NNS IN NN IN DT JJ JJ NNS . PRP VBZ JJ TO VB DT JJR NNS MD VB JJR NN TO VB CC NN NN , PRP VBD , IN DT NNS VBP VBN IN . NNP NNP RB RB VB JJR NNS IN NN . DT NNS , PRP VBZ VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN , MD VB PRP IN RB CD TO CD NNS DT CD CC CD NNS . NN MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN NNS , RB , WDT VBP RB VBN IN DT NNS . DT NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN CC NN RB TO DT NN IN DT JJ NNS CC DT NN IN DT NN . DT VBP IN NNS MD VB JJR IN DT NN VBZ RB VB RB IN DT NN . CC VBZ RB JJ IN NN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP POS NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP . PRP VBZ NN RB VBD JJ NN TO VB IN PRP VBZ JJR JJ . NNP , DT . '' 
JJ NNPS VBN IN CD , DT NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , CD NNP NNP , NNP CD , NNP , NNP CD , ( CD ) CD , NN ( CD ) CD , VBZ DT NN IN NN , VBG DT NN IN NN VBG NN CC JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . DT JJ NN , DT NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , NN , VBZ NNS IN NNP , NNP , DT NNP , NNP NNP , NNP CC DT NNP NNPS . DT NNP NNP , CD NNP NNP , NNP , NNP CD , ( CD ) CD , JJ NN , VBZ NNS IN DT RB VBN NN ( NN CC NN ) VBD IN PRP$ NNS CC DT NN NN NN : JJ IN RB IN DT NN , IN NNS JJ IN JJR IN CD NNS : IN DT NN MD VB TO VB PRP$ NNS . NNP VBZ $ CD IN DT JJ NN , $ CD IN DT . DT JJ NNP IN NNP , NNP CC NNP , ( CD ) CD , DT NN IN NN NNS , VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN NNS IN NN . 
NN WP VBZ RB VBN IN VBG VBZ VBN DT NNS IN JJ NN . PRP VBZ RP IN PRP$ NNS . PRP VBZ WP VBZ PRP$ NNS VBP . PRP$ NN VBZ WP VBZ PRP$ NNS NN CC VB RP . NNS CC JJ NNS VBP NNS CC NNS IN PRP VBP TO VB TO VB RP IN RB IN PRP$ JJ NN , '' IN NN IN VBG NNS WRB JJ NN VBZ TO VB . DT NNS RB VBP NN NNS TO VB PRP$ JJ JJ NNS . CC IN , PRP VBZ RP , VBZ DT JJ . JJ NN VBZ RB DT NN , RB DT JJ NN NN . NNS VBP PRP RB , VBG PRP IN NN , CC PRP VBP PRP TO VB NN . DT NN VBD NNS MD VB RB JJ CC RB RB VBZ IN PRP$ JJ NN VBZ PRP$ NNS TO VB RB PRP RBR RB CC RB JJ JJ NN . DT NN IN JJ NN VBD JJ VBD NN JJR IN DT NN RB , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP . PRP VBD IN PRP VBD TO VB RB JJ NN . 
RB DT NN NN VBZ VBN . CD NN VBD IN NNS WP VBD DT JJ JJ VBG IN PRP VBD NN VBD RBR JJ TO VB PRP$ NNS . DT VBD IN NNS WP VBD NNS IN PRP$ NNS VBG NN VBD RB VB PRP$ NNS IN DT NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP . NN VBZ DT JJ NN WRB NNS MD VB VBN WRB PRP VBP PRP$ NNP , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP VBZ VBN IN NN WDT VBD VBN IN NNS VBG NN NNS CC VBZ VBN IN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . DT NNS , IN NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , VBP RB VB NNP IN JJS NNS . NNS WP VBP JJ CC JJ , WP VBD CC WP VBP JJ NNS IN NN CC JJ NN NN MD VB VBG NN TO VB DT NN NNS RB , VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBN NN WDT VBD VBN IN NNS VBG NNS IN NN NN CC VBZ VBN NNS IN NN NNS . 
JJ JJ NNS NN IN VBG DT NN VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . NNP NNP VBD DT , CC RB IN DT NN PRP VBD . NNP NNP POS NN , VBZ DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , '' VBD IN DT NNP CD , CD , NN IN DT NN . PRP VBD DT NN IN WRB , IN CD , IN DT JJ JJ NN , PRP VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN . NNP NNP POS NN , CC DT NN POS NN TO VB PRP$ JJ NN IN PRP$ NN , VBD VB DT NN , CC DT NN , IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NNP NN . CD NNS RB , IN DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNP . NN , NNP NNP POS NN VBZ IN JJ NN , CC PRP RB VBZ RB JJ . PRP RB VBP VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NN . PRP VBD RB VBN JJ NN CC NN IN NNP NNP . IN JJ NNS IN VBG RB , PRP VBD VBN VBN JJ IN DT NN IN NNP . CC PRP VBD VBN PRP$ NN IN JJ NNS TO NNP , DT NN WDT VBZ PRP . 
NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP , VBD TO VB IN NNP NN NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN . PRP MD RB VB , '' NNP NNP VBD . '' VBZ DT JJ NN . '' IN JJ NNS , NN NNS CC NNS IN CC IN DT NN VBD VBD JJ NNS VBD VBG VBN IN NNS . IN NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP VBD POS NNP NNP IN NNP IN DT NNP . '' VBD IN JJ NNS IN DT NNP . NN VBP VBN DT NN IN DT NN IN VBG JJ NN , '' VBD JJ NNS , VBD DT JJ NN CC VBD DT NN POS NN . '' NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD TO VB NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , TO VB VBG NN IN NN CC NNS . NNP NNP , DT JJ CC NN IN NN NN , VBD VBN JJ NN IN DT NN IN JJ CD IN PRP$ NN IN VBG NN . IN DT NN DT NN VBZ VBN VBN IN NNS IN JJ NNS , VBG DT NN IN NNS IN NNP , DT NN IN NN NNS CC JJ NNS , CC NNS IN VBG IN TO VB JJ NNS IN DT NN NN . 
IN DT NN WDT VBZ DT NNS IN NN NN , DT NNP NN VBD DT JJ NN IN CD , WRB DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP POS NN , VBN NNP , VBD TO VB VBN . IN CD NNS , CC CD NN IN DT VBN , VBD NN IN PRP$ NNS . PRP VBD DT JJ NN TO DT NN , WDT VBD DT NN IN JJ NN TO VB DT JJ NN . IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NNS , NNS IN DT JJ NN MD VB VBN RB TO DT NN , VBG TO NNP POS JJ NNS . DT NNS IN DT NNS WP VBD RB IN DT NN VBD TO VB VBN , DT NN TO DT JJ NN RB VBN IN NNP POS . NNS IN CD NN NNS WP RB VBD IN JJ NNS VBD NN IN NN IN PRP$ NNS . DT NNS VBD DT NN IN NNP POS NN MD VB VBN IN NN . CC VBD IN DT NN VBD VBG DT JJ NN PRP VBP VBN IN DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBZ . 
CC NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP , VBD DT NN IN VBG DT JJ NN . PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN VBD DT NN IN JJ NN , VBN IN NNP NNP . NNP NNP VBD CC VBD NN IN CD NNS WP VBD IN DT CD NN , CD IN NNP , CD IN NNP NNP . DT NN VBD NNS IN NN VBN IN NN CC VBN IN JJ NNS IN NN . IN DT NN VBD DT NN , VBN CC VBN , CC RB , VBD IN RB CD NNS . RB NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN , IN DT NN WP VBD VBN IN NNP , NNP , WRB DT NN VBD IN PRP$ NN , VBG CD NNS CC VBG RB CD . DT JJ VBD VBN IN DT NN NN IN DT NN . DT JJ NN , NNP NNP , NN IN NNP NNP POS JJS , VBD VBN IN PRP$ NN IN NNP NNP IN PRP$ JJ NN . PRP VBD RP DT NN IN DT NNS POS NN , VBD DT NN POS RB JJ NN NN CC VBD PRP TO NNP NNP . 
EX VBZ DT NN IN NNS , CC NN IN NN VBZ IN DT NNP RB , '' VBD NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , DT JJ NNP NN WP VBD PRP NN NNP NNP NNP JJ NNP , IN CD IN JJ NNS IN DT NN IN NNP . CC VBP RBR JJ TO VB PRP WRB PRP VBD , WRB PRP VBD RB , DT NN , DT NN . '' NNP NNP , IN NN , VBD IN JJ NNP NNS IN PRP$ NN NNP POS NN , DT NNP NNP , VBD VBN TO NNP IN NN NN . PRP VBD RB IN PRP$ NN VBD RB VBN IN NN , IN DT NNP NNP CC RB . DT NNS IN NNP VBD IN $ CD TO $ CD IN NNS , CC DT JJ CD NNS IN NNS WDT VBP NNS IN DT NNP NNPS . RB , PRP VBZ IN NN IN NNP NNS CC JJ NNS WP VBP VBG RB IN IN JJ NN : NNP , NNP , NNP , NNP NNP , NNP , NNP . 
EX VBD NNS VBG IN DT NN , CC PRP$ JJ NN VBD IN PRP VBD RB CD CC CD NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD DT NN . VBG DT NN , NNP NNP , NNP NNP CC PRP$ NN VBD CD NNS IN DT NN , VBN RP DT NN TO VB NN NNS , CC VBD VBG NN IN NN . PRP VBD PRP RB CD NNS . NN VBD , '' MD VB PRP IN JJ VBG NNS CC IN JJ NNS IN PRP VBP , '' '' NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD NNS . DT NN VBD DT NN VBG NNS WP VBD JJ TO VB IN PRP . CC VBP RB JJ IN PRP MD VB DT DT NN NN , '' PRP VBD . DT NNS RB VBD PRP NN POS NN , NNP NNP VBD . PRP RB VBD TO PRP$ NN VBG IN DT NN VBD TO VB VBN IN DT NN NNS VBG IN DT NN , IN DT NNS CC NN IN DT NNS VBD TO VB VBN IN DT NN CC IN DT JJ NN MD VB VBN RB JJ TO DT NN , PRP VBD . 
JJ NNS VBP JJ , CC DT JJ NN VBZ JJ , DT NNS VBD . IN RB , WP PRP VBP VBZ DT NN IN NN CC DT JJ NN IN DT NN . CC VBZ VBG TO VB RB JJ IN PRP TO VB IN , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ NN IN DT NN IN NN , NN CC NN IN DT NNP . JJ NN . DT NN IN VBG DT JJ NN NN TO CD , CD CC JJR NNS , VBZ DT NN IN NNS CC DT IN PRP$ NN , '' PRP VBD . CC PRP VBZ NNS IN JJ NNS . CD IN JJ NN IN WRB TO VB DT NN , '' RB RB MD VB , NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN CC DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD : NNS VBP DT JJ JJ VBG NNS RB . PRP VBP RB VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN . '' 
NNS MD VB IN IN DT NN VBD VBN PRP MD VB VBN IN IN NN , '' NNP NNP , DT NN NN , VBD . NNS WP VBP VBN NNP NNS VBP IN PRP MD VB JJ TO VB JJ NNS . CC EX VBZ JJ NN VBG DT NN NN IN NNP CC NN NNS , NNS VBP VBG TO VB JJ TO VB NNS IN PRP MD VB IN NNS MD RB VB PRP$ NNS IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NNP NN NN WP VBD IN DT NNP NNS IN DT NNP NNP . NNP NNP , DT NNP NN WP VBZ VBN RB TO CD NNP NNS , VBD DT NNS VBD RB JJ . JJ MD VB IN DT VBZ DT JJS NN IN NNS IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ JJ NN : PRP VBP PRP RB RB IN NNS TO VB DT NNS IN PRP RB VBZ RB VB WP PRP VBP . '' IN IN DT NN POS NN , NNP NNP VBD , '' PRP$ NN , EX VBZ DT NN IN NNP VBZ NN NNS . '' PRP VBD IN DT NN PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN VBG NNS CC DT JJ NN CC NN NNS , PRP VBD IN DT NN . CC VBP TO VB RP TO PRP CC VB , VB PRP$ NNS VB NNP . '' '' PRP VBD . 
JJ NNS IN JJ NNS CC NNS VBP VBN RBR JJ IN NN NNS RB VBP JJ NNS TO VB JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBZ TO VB NNP . NN IN DT NN IN CD NNS . NNP NNP , JJ NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP CC DT NN IN JJ NNS IN NNS CC NN , VBD JJ NNS VBD RB VBN NN CC RB VBD RB JJ NN . PRP MD RB VB IN DT NN . CC VBP RB VBG IN DT NN WRB DT JJ NNS IN NN VBP VBG RB JJ CC VBD IN PRP VBP PRP VBZ NN IN DT JJ NN TO VB NNS CC TO VB DT NNS IN WDT NN VBZ RB VBN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN DT NN IN DT NNS CC DT NN , DT NN MD VB NN IN JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBD IN DT NNS RB VB PRP$ NN , JJ NN CC VBD IN $ CD CD TO $ CD CD IN DT NNS VBD DT NN IN PRP VBD VBN PRP . DT NN RB VBD DT IN DT NNS , IN DT NNS VBD RB RB CD NN IN DT NN VBD , RB RB RB TO VB DT NN . 
NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP , VBD PRP$ NNS RB VBD VBG TO VB JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBD DT NNS VBD JJ IN NNP NNP CC RB IN CD DT . CC NNPS VBP DT JJ JJ IN PRP VBP VBG IN DT NN , CC DT NNS VBP VBN IN PRP VBP VBG DT NN , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNPS VBD RB VBN JJ IN DT IN NN NNS . DT NNS VBP VBN IN NNS TO VB . DT NN VBN IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP CC DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP VBD IN IN CD , CD NNS IN VBN NN VBD VBN RB , RB IN IN JJ NN , VBG IN CD NNS . DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBD IN CD NNS IN IN JJ NN VBD VBN VBN IN NNP NNP NNP IN CD , IN DT NN NN MD RB VB VBN . DT NNS VBP RB VB NNS IN JJ NN . 
IN DT NN VBG , NNP VBD PRP , DT NN VBD TO VB JJ : POS PRP$ NNS , NNS CC NN VBP RB VB PRP VBP VBG DT . '' DT NN VBD PRP TO VB PRP$ NN : PDT DT NNS IN PRP RB VBD VBN IN PRP$ : IN VBG PRP$ NN . DT NN VBD RB NNPS PRP , PRP VBD : RB IN PRP . PRP VBD TO VB DT NNP '' CC VBD RB VBN IN PRP$ NN . WDT VBP TO VB , PRP VBP RB VBG . PRP VBZ JJ IN PRP TO VB IN DT NN . '' CC WP , CC WP , PRP VBD , VBD PRP VBP PRP MD VB VBG , IN IN NN DT NNPS VBD IN VBG DT NN IN CD IN DT JJ NN POS NNS . UH , PRP VBP , IN PRP RB VBP DT NN , PRP MD VB DT JJ NN , '' NNP VBD RB . IN PRP VBP DT NN VBD JJ . PRP VBD VBN IN PRP IN IN DT NN IN DT NN . PRP MD VB IN PRP VBG CC RB IN . PRP VBZ TO VB RB . CC IN NN , EX VBZ DT NN IN DT JJ NN TO VB PRP RB PRP MD VB CC VB CC VB NN PRP VBD VBN TO VB . '' 
JJ NN , VBZ VBD DT JJ NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP , IN NN NN NNS VBD IN DT NN IN NNS WP VBP IN NNS VBZ RB JJ . NNS VBP RB VB DT NN VBZ RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN POS NN NN . CC NN VBZ PRP DT JJ NN IN DT NN CC NN IN JJ CC JJ IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . VB DT NNS NNP NNPS VBP , NNS CC NNP . VBP DT JJS NNS IN NN CC NN . '' IN DT NN , CD NN IN NNS VBP NNS , IN VBP CD NN IN JJ NNS . NNS WP VBP RB NNP VBP DT JJS NN : CD NN : CC NNPS VBP JJ TO JJ , IN CD NN . DT NNP VBZ DT NN IN NNS , IN CD NN IN NNS VBG DT NN , IN CD NN IN NNP NNP NNS VBP PRP . NNP NNP VBD DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . PRP VBZ VBN VBG JJ NNS DT NN IN PRP$ NN IN PRP VBD VBN JJ NN . 
DT NN POS NNS VBP VBN VBN IN CD NNS . DT JJ VBD CD NNS RB WRB DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBD RB VBN RP IN IN NNS VBG DT VBN NN IN NN NNS , NNS CC NN NN IN NNS VBG DT NN NN . IN DT JJ CD NNS , NNS WDT VBD RB VBN : TO CD CD IN CD : JJ . NNS IN NNS JJ VBD CD NN IN NNS IN NNP , DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN WDT VBD DT NN IN DT NN , VBD CD NN , VBG TO DT NN VBN DT NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP . JJ NN VBN IN NN NNS VBD IN CD CD NNS VBD NN NN IN CD , CC IN VBD VBN TO CD CD IN NNP CD . NNP NNP , NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , DT JJ NN NN , VBD IN NNS VBN TO VB RB VBN IN JJ NNS CC JJR NNS VBG IN JJ NNS . IN PRP VBP VBN IN RB VBZ NNS VBG JJ NNS IN NN , '' PRP VBD . 
POS NNS VBP IN PRP MD VB RB JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC MD VB PRP$ NN . '' NNP NNP , DT JJ NNP . NN , VBD IN NNP NNP POS NNS MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN NN . CC JJ NN VBZ DT NN WDT NN IN DT NN VBZ IN VBG TO VB VB IN JJR CC JJR NN , '' PRP VBD . CC DT NN , PRP MD RB VB DT NN . '' RB RB , RB PRP MD . VB POS VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP : PRP VBZ NNP RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC PRP VBZ VBD NN . IN DT NN , DT NNP . VBZ RB RBR VBN IN JJ NNS . '' NN NNP NNP : NNP NNP NNP 
JJ NNS VBP RB VBN NN NN TO DT NN IN JJ NN , CC WRB PRP VBP VBG CC NN NNS , '' CC VB '' RB NNS . JJ NNS WP VBP IN JJ NNS RB VBP NNS CC NN : JJ NNS WP$ NNS VBP RB VBN NN VBP RB JJ NN . IN JJ NNS , JJ NNS VBP VBN NNS NNS RB IN VBG NNS MD VB IN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS RB RB IN IN JJ NN NNS . DT NNS VBP VBN NN NNS WRB NNS MD VB RB IN NN IN NNS CC NN NNS . JJ NNS VBP VBN NNS WRB NNS MD VB PRP$ NN NNS . RB NNS VBP VBG PRP$ NN NNS TO VB WRB PRP MD VB VBN . IN NNP , DT NN VBN IN PRP$ NN , NNP NNP NNP , TO VB JJ NN VBD JJ NN IN DT NN NN JJR JJ NNS IN NNS CC NNS , VBP JJR NN IN DT NN POS JJ NN NN IN JJ NN CC VB PRP$ NN . 
RB RB IN PRP VBP NNS TO VB JJ NNS , NNS VBP EX VBP JJ NNS CC EX VBP RB , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . DT VBZ DT RB JJ NN IN VBG IN NN , VBD NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NNP : WRB NNPS VBP DT JJS NNS IN DT NNP . '' POS NNPS VBP RB VB DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . EX VBZ JJR DT NN IN DT NN IN NN , RB RB DT NN IN NN . DT NN VBZ IN IN WDT JJ VBZ IN NN IN DT NN , DT NN NN VBZ CD CC DT JJ : DT NN TO NN . '' VBG TO DT NN IN CD NNS VBN IN NNP IN NNP , DT JJ NN VBG DT NN , CD NN IN NNS VBD PRP VBD IN DT JJ NN CC CD NN VBD PRP VBD RB IN DT JJ CC VBD VBN VBG RB IN NN NNS . 
RB IN PRP MD VB NN VBZ RB VB IN PRP MD CC PRP MD , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC JJ NNS IN NNP NNP , WP VBP VBP VBG IN DT JJ NN NN , VBP DT JJ NNS . '' MD VB TO VB NNS RB , '' PRP VBD , '' PRP VBP VBG IN PRP VBP VBN NN IN NN RB JJ IN NN TO VB PRP DT NN . '' NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN IN NNP NNP JJ NNP IN DT VBG NN IN JJ NN VBG TO VB DT NNS IN NN VBD DT NN VBD IN VBG VBN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNPS . PRP VBD NNP NNP NNPS IN NNP , RB NNP NNP NNP . 
PRP VBD , JJ NN VBZ RB IN DT VBN . '' IN NN , DT NNS VBP VB NN CC VB PRP RP , RB VBG IN VBN NNS TO VB , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN NNP CC DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP . TO VB NN IN DT NN , NNS MD VB CD NNS CC JJR , IN DT NNS , VBG NN , CC VB DT NN RP IN IN JJS DT NN . IN PRP VBP , PRP VBP IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD . NN PRP VBP IN , PRP VBP IN , '' PRP VBD . IN CD NNS , DT NN VBZ VBN CD NNS . JJS VBN RP DT NN , CC RB JJ VBN RB DT PRP VBD , NNP NNP VBD . CC EX RB VBP DT WP VBP PRP VBP VBN CC VBN TO VB , RB TO VB DT NN PRP RB RB VBN . IN JJ , JJ NN VBZ RB RB IN IN PRP$ NNS . NNP , DT NN DT NN , DT JJR DT NN . 
DT NN VBZ RB JJ : NN VBZ JJ NN . NNS VBP IN NN MD RB VB JJ NN IN DT NNP . CD NN IN NNP IN DT NN NNS CC JJ NNS RBR JJ . NN VBZ JJ JJ NNS IN DT NN NN IN NNS : DT NN VBZ RB RB JJ IN JJ NN NN , IN IN DT JJ NN , NN NNS VBP VBN TO VB NN . CC EX VBZ JJ NN IN DT NN : EX VBP JJR IN CD NN NNS IN DT NN . VBG NNP CC NNP NNP NNP IN DT NN VBZ DT NN IN NN NNS , WDT VBP VBG TO VB IN DT NN IN JJ NNS CC VBG JJ NNS JJ NNS TO VB NN CC NN NNS IN VBG NN IN DT NN . NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBZ VBN DT JJ NN NN IN NNP NNP , CC VBD RP PRP$ NN NN NN IN NNP NNP POS . PRP VBZ VBN JJ NNS IN JJ , RB RBR JJ NN NNS TO VB JJ IN PRP$ NNS , CC VBZ VBN IN $ CD JJ NN IN NN NN NNS . 
DT NN VBZ CD NNP NNP NNS , NN IN WP VBD VBN IN NN NN IN DT JJ JJ NN . DT NNS VBP VBN DT NN IN NN , NN CC NN IN PRP$ NNS CC NNS . DT NNP NNP NNP VBD DT NN POS NNS MD VB VBN IN DT JJ JJ NNS . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP POS NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD DT NNP NN VBZ RB VB DT NN IN DT NNS . '' NN VBZ DT NN WDT VBD RB VB DT NN IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . CC VBP JJ PRP MD VB RBR IN JJ NNS VBG RB . '' NNP NNP VBZ RB VBG TO VB NNS IN DT JJ NN IN RB JJ NN NN NNS IN NNS IN NN CD IN DT NNP NNP CC IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP NNS . IN DT JJ NN , DT NNP NN VBZ VBN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNS IN JJ NNS , NN IN DT NNP NNP NN NN NN , WDT VBP RB TO VB VBN . CC VBP VBG TO VB RB JJ IN DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP IN NNP , DT NN IN CD IN NNP , DT NN NN NN . VBZ RB NN PRP VBP VBG PRP IN JJ NN TO VB JJ NNS . EX VBZ NN IN RB PRP VBP VBG CC VBG . PRP MD RB VB PRP VBP DT RB RP DT NN CC PRP RB VBP RB VBN RP IN DT JJ NNS . '' 
IN PRP VBZ JJ TO VB JJ NN NNS IN DT NN POS NNS , DT NNS VBD DT JJ NNS IN CD NN POS NNS . DT NNS MD VB NN , RB IN PRP MD IN PRP VBD IN DT NNS , VBG DT NN . DT NN , PRP MD RB VB DT NN CC VB RP DT NN NNS IN PRP . IN , IN JJS , VBD DT NN . IN JJ , DT NN VBD TO VB DT JJ NN : DT NN VBD VBN IN PRP$ NNS . NNS VBD RB JJ IN PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . RB DT NNS VBD DT NNS VBG DT NN NNS . TO PRP$ NN , PRP VBD DT NN : DT NNS RB VBD PRP$ JJ NN CC DT JJR VBD NNS . CD VBD , VBZ DT : WRB MD DT VB VBN . '' '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBD RB . '' RB , PRP VBD TO PRP IN RB DT NN VBD RB DT NN . RB DT NN NN NN VBD RB JJ IN RB DT NNS VBD DT JJ NN , DT NNS MD VB PRP$ JJ NN NNS . 
WP VBD JJ , RB , VBD IN DT JJ NN IN NN , JJ NNS VBD RB VBN VBN IN : JJ NNS , IN DT NNP NNP NN , VBD VBN JJ NNS RB IN JJ NNS VBG IN RBR JJ MD VB VBN . IN NNP , PRP MD VB DT NN CC DT NN IN DT NNP . VBD WP VBD RP TO VB DT RB JJ NN : DT NN IN JJ NNS , VBD NNP CD , WDT VBZ VBD VBN IN NN NNS MD VB IN NNS . NNP NNP VBZ DT NNS IN DT JJR NN IN DT NNS IN DT NNP NN MD VB VBN NNP NNP CC DT CD JJ VBD NNP NNS IN VBG JJ : PRP VBD RB VBN VBN . CC PRP MD VB VBN JJR NN CC RBR NN . IN NNS IN DT NN , DT NNS POS NN IN DT JJ NN '' MD VB VBN NNS CC NNS IN NNS POS NNS RB . 
IN CD NNS IN NNP NN VBP VBN DT NN TO DT JJ NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP , VBG PRP DT RBS JJ NN VBN IN NNS CC NNS . DT NN RB VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNS VBZ RB RB RB JJR . NNP . WRB VBP DT NNS VBP NNS . DT . IN NNS IN DT NNS WP VBP DT NN RB VBD DT JJ NNS , WDT VBP TO VB IN DT NN , NN CC NNS CC IN DT NN IN DT NNS . CC NNS WP VBP VB DT NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN VBG DT NN . RB IN CD NN IN NN NNS VBP RB VBN , CC DT NNS VBP RBS RB VBN IN DT JJ NNS WDT VBP RBS JJ IN NNP TO NNP CC NN IN NNP CC NNP . NNS VBP JJ NNS , RB IN PRP VBP VBN CC VBN IN CD NNS IN PRP VBP NN , NNP NN MD RB VB VBN . 
VBG TO DT NNP NNP , DT NN NN , DT NN IN NNPS WP VBD JJ NNS IN NNP , NNP NNP CC DT NNP VBD TO CD NN IN NNP IN CD NN IN NNP . IN DT JJ NN , DT NN IN NNS IN DT JJ NN VBD . IN DT NN IN DT NNS JJ , NNP NNP VBZ VBG DT IN DT JJS JJ NNS . VBN IN CD TO VB NNS VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN VBD RP RB IN NN NNS VBN NN IN JJ NN . VBZ VBZ PRP$ NN TO NNS IN NNP POS CC NNP CC RB VBZ PRP$ JJ JJ NNS , NN NNS CC JJ NNS . RB IN DT JJ CD NNS , IN CD NNS IN JJ NN , NNS IN NNP NNS VBD CD NN , VBG TO NNP NNP NNP ( DT NN VBZ RB VB NNS IN NNP . ) IN NNP , DT NN VBD TO VB RP $ CD CD IN JJ CC VBD NN , VBG TO DT NN IN JJR IN $ CD CD IN DT JJ NN CC VBG DT NN IN JJ NN , VBG TO DT NNP CC NN : NNP POS NN . 
IN CD NN IN NNS VBG NNP CC NNP VBD IN CD NNS , CD NN IN NNS CC VBD CC VBD RB VB . PRP MD VB IN NNS VBP VB DT NNS VBP IN NN TO NNS IN NNP POS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN JJ NN IN NNP . NNP IN DT JJ NNS IN NNP POS NNS VBD IN NN IN NN TO PRP$ NNS , VBG TO JJ NNS VBG IN PRP VBP NNS . NNP VBZ VBG IN PRP MD VB RBR JJ NNS IN DT JJ , JJ NN WDT VBZ JJR IN JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN CC NN . PRP RB VBZ DT IN PRP$ JJS JJ NNS . NNP JJ NN , NNP NNP VBZ DT JJ NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP POS . DT NN IN DT NN NN , NNP NNP VBD NNS IN DT NN CC IN JJ NN , VBG TO VB NN NN . CC IN PRP VBD IN DT NNP IN NNP IN CD IN DT NN POS NN IN NN , PRP RB VBD IN NNS IN PRP$ NN VBD JJ . PRP VBZ PRP VBD IN NNS IN VBG DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP . 
NNP : NN WP VBZ NNS IN DT NN NN MD VB CD . VB RB VB PRP TO DT NN NN . CC VBP RB VB NNS IN PRP VBP PRP VBP RB IN NN IN DT NN NN . DT NN IN NN IN VBG NN MD VB NN IN NN NN . NNP VBZ RB , IN NNS VBP . IN NNP NNP : PRP VBP DT JJ NNS IN NN CC NN IN DT NNP NNPS NN : NN NN , NN , VBD , JJ JJ JJ NN , VBZ CC NNP POS NN , IN DT NN . CC PRP VBP DT NN IN JJ . PRP VBP JJ : RB , PRP VBP IN CD NN IN DT NN POS JJ NN NN NNS , VBD NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP . PRP VBP IN NNS : NNS IN NN IN NNS VBP TO NN NNS CC RB MD VB TO NNS CC VB TO NNP POS NN . VBZ MD VB TO NN NN , NN CC RB NN . VBG MD VB TO JJ JJ JJ NN RB RB IN NN CC NN NN , WDT IN NN NNS TO NNP POS . 
RB VBD DT JJ JJ NN WP VBD TO PRP IN DT NN NN NN , '' VBD PRP$ NN , NNP , WP RB VBD PRP IN IN PRP . IN DT JJ CD NNS , NNP NNP POS NN VBD , PRP VBD NN , JJ CC JJ PDT DT NN , CC NNS VBD PRP VBD NN CC NNP . PRP VBZ JJ NN IN PRP$ NN IN PRP VBP IN JJ NNS , '' PRP VBD . NNP , JJ NN VBD RB WP NNP NNP VBD VBG IN . IN VBG IN JJ NN NN VBZ DT VBG NN IN NN NNS , PRP VBD TO VB PRP TO VB RP PRP$ JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN . IN NNS , JJ CC NNS MD VB PRP$ NN VBZ CD TO CD NN IN VBG CD NN JJR IN PRP VBD , WRB MD RB PRP . '' VBP RB RB CD IN DT NNS WP VBZ , '' , CD JJR NNS CC PRP MD VB , '' '' VBD NNP NNP , CD , WP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNP IN PRP$ NNP NNP NN . RB IN PRP VBZ VBN TO DT NN CC VBZ RB VBN RP IN NN NN , PRP VBZ RBR IN DT NN IN DT NN '' NN . CC VB RB JJ IN PRP VBD IN CD , '' PRP VBD . VBG CC JJ JJ RB IN PRP . '' NNP NNP VBZ NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS , NNS , NNS CC JJ JJ NNS WP VBP IN VBG DT TO VB ( CC RB TO NN , NN CC NN , RB ) MD VB DT NN TO NN . 
TO VB DT NN , NNP NNP VBD TO VB NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NNP NN , WP VBD VBG RP IN NNP CD . NNP NNP VBD CD IN NNP NNP POS NNS , IN PRP VBD RB VBN . VB RB VBN PRP RP , '' NNP NNP VBZ . DT NNP VBZ IN PRP$ NN WP VBD NNP NNP : NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP : RB VBD PRP . NNP NNP VBD JJ IN VBG VBN IN DT JJ NN PRP VBD RB VBN IN . CC IN VBG PDT DT NN IN NNP , VBG PRP$ NN , NNP NNP VBD TO VB NN IN NNP CD . CC VBZ DT NNP . : EX VBZ DT NN IN DT , '' NNP NNP VBD IN PRP$ NN IN NNP , NNP POS PRP VBP RB NN . PRP VBZ RB VBN DT NN PRP VBP VBN IN . '' IN NNP NNP VBD DT NN , DT RBS JJ NN VBD VBG PRP IN JJ NNS . VBG JJ JJ NNS VBZ CD IN DT RBS JJ NNS IN NN IN PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB WRB JJ NNS NN . CC VBD DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
RB PRP VBD DT NN IN NN WDT MD RB CC VBZ RB VBG VBN RB , WDT VBZ JJ NN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP POS NNP IN NNP NNP CC NN IN PRP$ JJ JJ NN . CC VBP TO VB DT NN RB WRB PRP VBP VBG IN DT VBZ JJ IN NNP . PRP VBP VBG IN DT NN IN IN PRP VBP PRP , PRP MD VB . '' JJR IN CD NNS VBD VBN IN JJ NN NNS IN VBG VBN TO DT NN JJ NN VBN IN DT NN . CD VBD NN VBD DT NN TO VB DT JJ NN CC VB PRP TO VB JJ NN NNS . NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD VBN RP IN PRP VBD JJ NNS IN DT NN NN , CC IN EX VBD DT JJ NN TO DT NN IN VBG NN IN NN . DT NN VBD DT JJ NN TO VB NNS WP VBP RB VBG JJ NN . 
TO DT VBG NNS IN JJ NNS WP VBP JJ NN : DT NN WDT VBZ IN NN IN JJ JJ NNS CC NNS VBP RB JJ : EX VBZ DT RBR JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . NNP IN NNS IN DT JJ NN VBP DT JJ RBS JJ NN IN VBG DT NN , VBG TO NNS IN DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP . IN CD , PRP VBD IN IN CD CD NN NNS , IN IN CD CD NNS IN DT . IN $ CD TO $ CD IN NN ( CC $ CD CC RB IN DT JJ JJ NN '' IN JJ NNS VBP TO VB NNS ) , WDT VBZ RP TO JJR IN $ CD CD DT NN . CC IN DT NN IN NNS WDT VBD IN CD CC VBZ RB VBG , DT JJ NN VBN IN DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNPS , VBD JJ NN IN JJ IN DT NNS RB VBD IN DT JJ JJ NN IN JJ NNS . 
IN VBG NN RB IN DT NN NN , NNP MD VB VBN NNS VBG JJ NNS : IN NNP , IN NNP : TO VB TO NNP IN PRP VBD NN POS NNS . IN DT NN JJ NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP POS JJ NN , VBD DT NN POS NNS , VBG IN DT NNS IN VBG JJ RB DT NN MD VB JJ . RB , NNP VBZ PRP VBZ VBG $ CD CD TO VB NN . NNP VBZ DT NN POS JJS NN NN , IN NNS IN $ CD CD CC DT NN IN $ CD CD JJ NN . CC NNP POS NN VBD NNS , WP VBD DT NN VBD TO VB VBG PRP$ NNS RB IN NNS POS NN . RB DT NNS MD RB VB IN CD NN TO DT , CC DT NNS MD RB VB NNS IN DT . IN NNP CD , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP RB VBD NNP POS NN . IN NNS IN NNS , NNP POS NN VBD JJ CC JJ NNS . DT NNS VBD IN VBG NN RB IN NNP MD VB JJ NNS . RB , NNP , IN RB DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNS JJ NN IN $ CD CD , VBZ VBG NN NN TO NNP , WP$ NN VBZ VBN IN PRP VBD NN NN JJ NN . IN DT NN , NNP VBD VBG NN IN VBG PRP TO NNP , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP CC NN : NNP . 
NNP NNP POS JJ NNS RB VBD IN PRP VBD RB IN DT NN IN DT NN , WDT TO DT NN VBD JJ . PRP VBD VBN RP WRB TO VB IN DT NN , PRP VBD TO VB , RB IN PRP VBD CD . PRP VBD VBN JJ NNS IN DT JJ CD NNS , NN JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN , VBG CC VBG IN NNP NNP CC VBG NNS . NNP NNP VBD RB VBN IN PRP IN DT NN IN DT NN NN : RB IN DT PRP$ NNS VBD VBN IN NN NN : RB IN PRP$ NN VBD VBN NNS VBN : RB IN PRP PRP VBD IN NN NN , PRP$ NN NNS VBN IN JJ CC PRP$ NN VBD VBN VBG PRP JJ NN . PRP VBD DT NN NN WP VBD JJ NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NNP POS JJ NN CC DT NNS IN NNP NNP . PRP$ NNS MD VB VBN DT NN POS NN : NNS , NN , NN , NN IN DT JJ NN : CC PRP VBD PRP$ NN NN TO VB JJ NN : RB NN , NN , NNS , NN CC NN . 
DT NNS VBD DT NN IN NN NN NN IN DT NNS WP VBD VBN JJ CC JJ NNS CC DT WP VBD RB . NNP NN NN VBD RB VB IN NNS WP VBD VBN DT JJ CC JJ NN IN CC IN PRP$ JJ NN , CC WP VBD VBN DT NN IN DT . IN DT JJ NN , DT NNS VBP , PRP VBZ RB VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN CD VBZ VB DT JJ NN IN NN NN . IN PRP MD VB VBD IN DT JJ NN WP VBZ VBZ PRP$ NN IN NN NN VBN IN WP PRP MD VB IN PRP VBD DT NN TO JJ NN . NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD NN IN DT NNS IN WDT DT NN VBD DT NN . JJR IN VBG DT IN DT NNS , PRP VBD , DT NNS MD VB VBN RB DT IN VBD JJS IN DT NN , VBG JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN NN TO VB . 
DT JJ , $ CD CD NN VBN JJ NN VBD DT JJS CC RBS JJ IN PRP$ NN CC VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT $ CD CD JJ NN WDT VBZ CD NNS IN DT . NNS IN DT NN VBN JJ NN VBD IN NN TO CD NNS : DT NNS NNP , NN CC NN CC VBD NN , JJR VBN IN NNP POS : VBD RB VB IN DT JJR NN IN NN NN . DT NNS VBD RB VBN IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT CD POS , CC NNP POS VBP RB RB VBN , IN PRP RB VBD , IN JJ NN . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP CC DT JJ NN IN DT NN , VBD PRP , RB , VBD VBN IN JJ NNS . CC PRP VBP NNS IN NN , PRP RB VBP IN PRP VBP IN DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . IN PRP MD VB RB VBZ IN PRP VBP VBN DT CD NNS , CC RB PRP VBP TO VB VB IN NNS . '' 
JJ NNS IN DT NN VBP TO VB JJ IN NN . IN DT JJ JJ NN VBN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS VBN IN JJ NNS WP VBD IN DT NNS DT NN JJ NN IN NN CD IN DT JJ JJ NN NN VBD RBS TO DT JJ JJ NN NN . DT NN VBD DT NN IN NN PRP MD VB IN PRP$ NNS IN CD NN . DT WP VBD IN CC VB DT NN NN IN DT NN VBD RB DT CD NN NN IN DT NN PRP VBD . CC VBP RB VBN IN DT NNS VBP JJR TO VB , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD PRP VBP RB VBN WRB . '' RB DT NN VBZ TO VB NN NNS TO VB DT WP VBP JJ NNS WDT VBP DT JJ NN . WP , '' VBD NNP NNP , VBZ DT NN TO NNS . '' 
NN VBZ RB JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP IN NNP , DT NN NN IN NNS IN NN IN NNP NNP , NNP POS PRP VBP TO VB IN DT NN . '' NNP NNP , JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP , VBD IN IN DT RB JJS NNS MD VB IN DT JJS JJ JJ TO NNS IN JJ NN WDT MD VB NN . VBG VBD VBN NN RB , NNP NNP VBZ VBN IN DT NN . NNS VBP DT NN NN , CC PRP MD VB NN : NN : TO VB NN RB IN VBG DT NN , '' PRP VBD . NNS , IN PRP$ NN , VBP PRP VBP RB VBN RP DT JJS . IN PRP$ NN IN NNS , PRP VBP VBG DT NN IN NNS . PRP VBP VBG IN JJ NNS TO VB JJ NNS CC VBP IN PRP VBP VBN TO NN NN . PRP VBP VBG DT VBG NN IN NNS WDT MD VB DT NN POS NNS IN JJ NNS . CC PRP VBP VBG IN NN NNS CC VBG IN EX VBP NNS IN NN NNS WDT MD VB TO DT JJ NN . 
PRP VBP RB IN NN NN VBZ DT RB JJ NN WDT RB VBZ RB IN DT NN WRB DT NN NN VBZ JJ . NNS VBD IN JJ MD RB , IN NN , VB JJ . DT NN IN DT NN , RB RB DT NN WRB PRP VBZ VBN , VBZ VB DT NN POS NN . WP VBZ RB VBG IN DT JJ NN IN NN VBZ DT NN IN NNS TO VB IN WP DT NN NN . IN DT NN IN NNS IN NNS IN CD VBZ VBN JJ IN NNS , DT JJ NN NNS PRP$ NN RB IN CD . DT NNS IN DT NNP VBD VBN TO CD NNS , IN NNP CC IN NNP , NNP , WDT VBP IN DT RBS JJ IN NN . EX VBP NNS IN JJ NNS , CC NN MD VB . WP MD NNS CC PRP$ NNS VBP IN PRP VBP RBR JJ NNS . RB VBZ PRP$ JJ NN . IN NNS IN CD : DT IN WP NNS IN NN POS NN VBP JJS : PRP MD VB TO VB JJ NN , VBG DT NN IN NNS CC VBG PRP VB IN TO VB NN . IN NNS CD TO CD , PRP MD VB TO VB RB NN . EX VBZ RB VBN RB JJ JJ NNS IN RB JJ TO VB DT NN RB . CC PRP MD RB VB RBR JJ TO VB IN NNS IN PRP$ NNS WP VBP PRP . IN DT NN , PRP MD VB JJ TO VB PRP$ JJS JJ NNS IN WRB PRP VBD NN NN . 
DT JJ NN VBD PRP$ NN IN DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . PRP VBD DT JJ CD POS , WRB NNS CC DT JJ NNS VBD DT NN IN NN NNS IN NN NNS , VBG PRP MD VB DT NNS . NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN : IN NNS MD VB NNS VBP NN : CC IN DT NN IN VBG JJ NN MD VB DT NN IN JJ NN RB IN NN . PRP$ NN , PRP VBD , IN CD NNS , VBN IN CD , VBD IN PRP VBD JJ : NNS IN DT NNS VBD RB JJR . IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , DT NNS VBD VBG IN IN NNS VBD DT JJ JJ NN , PRP MD VB NN . WDT VBD PRP , '' PRP VBD . NN VBD VBG NNS VB JJ . '' RB , NNP NNP VBD , PRP VBD TO VB RB IN PRP$ NNS , VBG TO VB DT NNS VBD RB JJR IN PRP VBD IN NN NNS IN IN PRP VBD RB : IN PRP$ JJ NNS VBD DT NN IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBD RB , TO PRP$ NN , IN DT NNS IN PRP$ NN WP VBD IN DT NN NN VBD CD NNS JJR IN NNS WP VBD RB IN DT NN . PRP VBD DT NN IN CD JJ NN IN PRP$ NN NNS . 
PDT DT JJ NN PRP VBZ VBN IN DT NNS : DT NN NN CC NN , VBG DT NN IN DT NN CC NN : PRP DT VBD IN JJ CC JJ NN TO NNS . NNP VBZ PRP VBZ RB VB VBG NNS IN DT NN VBZ DT NN TO VB DT NN , CC PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN : NNP NNP . '' NN IN NNP , '' PRP VBD PRP , '' RB VBN IN NN TO VB , PRP MD VB VBN JJ TO VB NNS MD VB DT NNS CC PRP MD RB . PRP VBP , IN NN VBD VBG TO VB NN IN PRP$ NNS , WRB MD RB PRP VB DT NN IN DT . '' NNP NNP VBZ DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , '' IN DT NN , NNS CC NN IN DT JJ JJ NN NN , WDT MD VB VBN IN NNP JJ NN . NNS POS NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN IN NNP CD IN DT NNP NNP NN IN JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN TO DT NN IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NN IN NNS IN PRP VBD IN VBN RB . IN NNP , IN DT NN VBD VBN TO VB , DT VBG NN VBD IN DT NN POS DT JJ NNS , VBG CC RB JJ TO NN , NN CC NN NNS '' IN PRP NNS . 
IN NNS , NNS VBP VBN TO VB RP IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN , CC EX VBP IN RB JJ NNS . CD VBZ JJ NN : NNS WP VBP VBN NN IN JJ NNS CC IN VBG DT NN VBP VBN , IN NNP POS NNS , TO VB DT JJ RB . DT VBZ DT NN IN NNS : JJ NNS VBP VBN IN NN NN NNS , IN JJS , NN IN VBG DT NN POS JJ NNS . RB DT JJ VBZ IN VBG DT NN , RB IN PRP VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN NN , VBZ NN , WDT VBZ TO VB DT NNS IN JJ NNS IN NN CC NN . WP DT IN DT NNS VBP IN JJ : IN PRP VBP RB RB RB JJ : VBZ DT NN IN NN , DT NN IN NN IN DT NN WDT MD RB VB VBN IN DT JJ VBG . DT NN IN NN VBZ RB JJ WRB PRP VBP DT NN VBN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , CD IN DT RBS JJ NNS IN DT NN , IN NN CC NN : NN VBZ WP DT NN NNS : NN VBZ WP DT NN VBZ . NNP MD VB VB DT NN IN NN , IN PRP MD RB VB DT JJ NN . VBZ NNP NNP : WP PRP VBP RB VBG IN IN DT NN NN VBZ DT NN IN NN , DT NN IN VBG IN DT NN NN IN PRP VBP RB IN NN POS NNS . '' 
WRB DT JJ NN , NNP , CC PRP$ NN NN , NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD TO VB NNP RB , NNP VBZ VBN NN NNS IN NNP NNS IN DT NN CC JJ NNS TO NNP TO VB NN NNS . PRP VBD RB NN . IN RB , DT NNP PRP VBD VBN NNP IN DT NN IN NNP : DT NN WDT RB VBZ PRP$ NNS , '' CC NNP VBD NNS IN PRP$ NNS IN DT NNP NNPS , WRB PRP VBZ JJR IN $ CD CD NN IN NN . RB , NNP VBD JJ NN TO VB JJ . PRP VBD CD IN CD NNS WDT VBD IN DT NN IN NNP . NNP , DT JJ NN NN WDT VBD DT NN NN , NNP NNP , IN NNP NN NNS , CC NNP VBD JJ TO NNS IN PRP VBD RB VBG WP CD NN NN VBD CD JJ NN . '' IN CD , IN DT NN IN NN IN NN NNS CC NNP NNS IN NNP , NNP POS NN , NNP , VBD PRP MD VB DT NN RB . RB IN DT JJ NNP NNP VBD NNP NNP JJ NN IN NNS '' CC VBD NNP TO VB PRP TO NN , VBD DT NN VBP RB . IN DT NNP NNPS , WRB NN VBZ DT RB RBR JJ NN , NNP VBD VBN TO VB IN IN DT NN . CC VBP VBN VBN , PRP VBP VBN VBN IN CC PRP VBP VBN VBN IN NN , '' NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD IN CD . VB PRP$ JJ NN VBZ RB VBN IN CD NNS , CC PRP VBP RB VB PRP TO VB . '' 
NNP NNP JJ NN , DT JJ NN DT NNP VBD DT NN VBG IN NNS VBP RB VB NNS CC , IN NN , VB JJ NNS TO VB JJ CC JJ NNS . IN DT NN RB VBD JJ NN , DT NN IN NN NN NNS CC NNS VBD VBN IN NN . NNP NN NNS VBD IN PRP$ NN IN NN VBD VBN . DT JJ NN VBD IN PRP VBD DT JJ NNS TO VB VBG JJ NN . DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN NN NN RB VBD DT NN WDT VBD PRP JJ NN NNS RB . IN NN , EX VBZ RB VBN JJ IN JJ NNS IN NN NN . RB NN VBZ IN NN IN JJ NN IN NNS IN CD IN PRP VBZ RB IN JJ IN JJR NNS IN PRP VBZ IN JJR NNS . WP DT NNP NN VBD VBD DT NN IN VBG NN IN DT NN , JJ CC JJ . RB DT NNP NNP NNP VBD TO VB NN IN PRP VBD DT NN . 
NNP NN VBG RB VBZ NN NNS , DT NNS VBP . IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP . NN , DT NN VBD , IN CD NNS IN CD IN CD , VBG DT NN IN CD IN CD CC VBG TO CD IN CD IN CD . IN CD , RB JJ NNS VBD RB VBN VBN IN JJR JJ NNS VBD VBG VBN . CC DT NN NN IN NN NN , WDT VBD IN CD IN CD IN CD TO CD IN CD IN CD , VBD RB VB RB RB JJ CC IN JJS NN IN DT NN VBZ JJ TO VBN NN . CC VBP RB RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT NNS , IN NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBP IN IN DT NN IN NN NN RB VBZ DT NN VBZ VBG WP PRP VBZ VBN TO VB , VBG NNS RB CC VBG NNS . PRP VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN NN VBZ JJR CC VBZ PRP VBZ JJR NNS IN NN WDT MD VB VBN . 
NNP NNP CC NNS VBN IN JJ NN VBP PRP VBZ RB JJ IN NN VBD VBG DT VBN NNP . MD VB NNP IN DT NN . DT NN NN , WDT VBZ VBN IN DT NN , RB RB VBZ VBG DT NNP . NNS WDT VBP NN CC RB VBZ DT NN TO VB CC VB IN DT NN , PRP VBP . CC DT NNS VBP IN IN JJ NNS , JJ NNS MD VB IN JJ NN IN JJ NNS CC IN DT NN POS JJ NNS TO VB DT NN TO VB . CC RB IN DT JJ NNS VBP JJ , NNS VBP JJ TO VB JJ , CC NNS JJ , IN VBG NNS IN RB DT JJ NNP NN . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN WDT VBZ VBN DT JJ NN , IN CD VBZ TO VB JJ IN VBG PRP , RB IN DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP . 
IN NNP NNP POS NN , NNS VBD JJR IN CD NNS IN NNS , VBG IN CD JJ NNS . '' VBZ RB VBG DT NN IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . '' VBZ VBG DT NN IN DT NN , WRB PRP MD VB DT NN . '' IN DT NNS , DT VBZ VBN IN NN TO JJ VB DT NN . CC JJ NNS VBP PRP VB TO JJ NNS . '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ RB RB JJ , DT NNS VBD , IN DT NNS IN NNP NNP POS NN RB MD VB CD NNS IN NN . DT NNS VBD DT JJ NN TO VB WRB JJ NNS MD VB VBN TO VB IN JJS VBD VBN IN CD NNS . CD NNS MD VB CD NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ VBG VBN RP . VB POS VB IN CD NNS CC VB WP VBZ . '' RBR JJ NNS IN DT NN IN NNP VBG MD VB IN DT JJ NNS WRB DT NN , IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBZ IN . PRP RB VBD PRP$ RB CD NNS , NNS CC JJ NNS , TO VB JJ NNP NNS CC , IN NN , JJ NNS . VBN IN JJ NNS , JJ NNS VBP JJS NNS RB JJ IN JJ NN IN DT NN , IN PRP MD VB IN DT NN NN IN DT NN . 
NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , WP RB VBZ DT NNS , VBD , '' PRP VBP DT JJ NN , DT NN VBZ TO VB NN . '' CC DT NNS VBD PRP MD RB VB VBG NNS TO JJ NNS WP MD VB . NN , NNS RB VBP JJ NNS TO VB JJ NNS . IN CD , IN NN , DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBD NN TO NNP NNP TO NN JJ NN NN IN JJ JJ NN , '' CC JJ NN IN NNS : TO VB PRP VB , RB IN JJ NNS . RB , RB DT JJ CD JJ NNS VB IN NN . WRB , DT MD VB , MD VBG JJ NN VB JJ . NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP NN IN NN , VBD PRP RB NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN VBD JJ . IN PRP$ JJ NN , PRP VBD NN . CC VBD IN DT JJ CD , '' VBG DT NN , PRP VBD PRP . 
NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN VBD IN PRP$ NN IN NNP CC NN , MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP , NN NNS VBD NN . NNP NNP , DT JJ NN CC NN NN , MD VB DT JJ NN TO VB DT NNS , DT NN POS JJ JJ NN NN . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN CC JJ NNS NN , MD VB NNP NNP POS NN IN NNP IN DT NN IN DT NN POS NNP NN , NN NNS IN DT NN VBD . NNP NNP , WP VBZ RB VBG NN NN IN NN IN DT NN , VBD VB DT NNS POS NNS TO VB CC VB DT NN IN JJ NN NNS IN DT NN JJ NN . IN DT NNS VBD TO VB DT NN NN CC VBD DT NN IN VBG IN PRP , NNP NNP VBD DT JJR NN CC VBD IN DT NN . DT NN POS JJ NN , NNP NNP NNP , VBD DT NN IN NNP CD . NNP NNP VBD DT NNS POS NN TO DT NN NN , VBG DT NN VBD RB IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . 
IN DT JJ NN IN NNP , NNP NNP VBD IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNPS NNP NNP IN JJ NNP , NNP PRP$ VBG NN VBD VBN IN IN JJR IN CD NNS , CC NNP , VBN IN DT JJ NN , VBD JJ IN DT NNS VBD IN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS . RB VBD PRP$ NN TO VB . DT NN RBR , IN DT JJ NN , NNP VBD JJ TO VBG IN DT JJ NN NN CC VBN TO VBG JJR IN DT NN POS NN IN JJ NNS IN NN , NN CC NN , RB IN PRP IN VBG JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP . PRP VBD JJ NNS IN NNS CC IN JJ NNS , CC PRP VBD DT NN TO VB NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP : DT NN NN TO RB JJ IN CD NNS IN JJ NN . NNP POS NN IN NN VBD IN JJR IN CD NNS IN WDT PRP VBD DT NNS IN PRP , VBD IN NN CC VBD TO VB PRP$ NNS . IN DT NN NNP VBD JJ , PRP$ NN VBD VBN IN CD IN DT RBS JJ NNS IN JJ NN IN NNP NN . 
IN NNS IN DT NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NN , VBD IN DT NN TO DT NN IN DT NN IN PRP VBD VBG IN NN , '' NNS VBP JJ CC NN VBP JJ . '' IN JJ NN NNS IN NNP VBP RB JJ , DT NNS VBD , DT NN VBD RB JJ . NNP NNP VBD IN NNS IN DT JJ NNS VBD JJ CC VBD PRP$ VBD RB . CC IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NN , PRP VBD , '' VBP VBN VBN IN WP PRP VBP VBN . '' PRP VBD PRP VBD VBN RBR NN IN NNS VBN RB IN JJ NNS WDT VBD , IN NN , NN CC JJ NN . VBG DT JJ NN IN DT NN , NNP NNP NN NNP , DT NN NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNPS CC NNP , VBD IN CD JJ NN NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT CD NN IN DT NN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . PRP VBD VBN JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC NNP . '' 
IN DT NN VBZ IN NNS , DT NN NN VBZ VBG NN IN DT NNS IN JJ NNS . '' RB IN VBG DT NN NN JJ , PRP VBP RB VB PRP MD VB VBG PRP$ JJ NNS IN JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD IN DT NN JJ NN . RB DT NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN VBZ TO VB . PRP VBP RB VBN IN NN WRB PRP VBP IN RB , CC PRP VBP RB VB : PRP VBP RB DT NN : PRP VBP RB RB VB IN POS PRP$ NN . '' CC NNP NNP , DT NN IN CD NNS WP VBZ IN NNP CC NN : NNP IN DT JJ NNP NN IN NNP NNP , VBD IN PRP VBD RB VBN VBN TO VB DT NN IN DT NN NN . CC MD VB VBN TO VBG IN JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ RB DT JJ NN , VBZ RB WP PRP VBZ . PRP MD RB NN PRP TO DT JJ NN RB , '' PRP VBD , VBG , '' PRP VBP RB VBG PRP , PRP VBZ RB VB PRP . '' 
NNP NNP VBD IN DT NNS DT NN VBD VBD DT JJ NN IN NN MD VB PRP RB JJR TO VB TO VB NN . CC JJ NNS MD RB VB , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBD PRP MD VB DT NN TO DT JJ NNS , IN PRP MD VB PRP . NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD DT NN VBD RB RB JJ IN NNS MD VB IN NN : PRP VBD , PRP VBD , TO VB WDT NNS MD VB TO VB IN NN . TO VB DT NN TO VB WP MD VB NN MD VB NN , PRP VBD , CC NNP POS DT NN IN NN . '' 
CC NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP CC DT NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP , VBD IN IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT NNS , PRP VBD PRP CC MD VB PRP TO VB NNS VB DT NNS IN NNS . '' MD VB , FW VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NNP . IN VBD IN NN IN NN CC PRP VBD RB JJ RBR , RB IN JJR NNS CC NNS IN JJ TO VB JJ NNS , '' '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP VBD CD IN PRP$ NNS WP VBD VBG NNS CC VBD JJ TO VB NN PRP$ PRP RB MD RB VB IN PRP NN NNS . NNP NNP VBD PRP$ DT NNS : IN CD NNS , DT JJ NN IN CD NN NNS IN DT NN NN VBD DT NN NN , DT NN , CC VBD NN NN . RB PRP VBD IN DT NNS POS RB NNS VBD IN DT JJ NN IN NNS IN NN . RB , PRP VBD PRP NN DT JJ NN . 
CC MD VB NN NN . DT NN VBZ VBG NN NN IN DT JJ NN VBG CD JJ NNS , IN CD NNS RB VBN TO VB DT NNP POS NN CC NNP IN DT NN . DT NNP MD VB NN IN DT NN . NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP VBZ PRP VBZ TO VB , RB . CC VBP JJ VBG TO VB IN PRP , '' PRP VBD . 
NNP NNP VBD DT NN VBD RB JJ . DT JJ NN NNS , PRP VBD , VBP RB IN DT NN MD VB VBN IN DT NN NN , RB IN PRP RB VBD PRP . IN DT NN , NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN JJ NNS IN NNP , VBD DT JJ NN TO CD NN NNP NNS VBG IN NNP IN DT NNP NNPS . PRP VBD IN VBD NNS '' IN NN VBN IN NNP VBD VBG IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN IN IN CD DT NN . CD IN DT NNS VBP RB , '' PRP VBD , VBG NNS IN NN , JJ NN , NN CC CD RB JJ NNS . '' NNP NNP VBD , FW PRP , PRP VBZ RB VBN DT NN IN , NN PRP VBP TO VB , CC RB TO WP , WRB , WP . '' POS MD VB RB RB DT NN IN DT RB JJ NNS IN JJ scientific NNS VBN IN NNP NNP VBP VBN , '' PRP VBD . 
IN DT JJ NN POS NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , EX VBZ DT NN NN : POS . WRB VBP PRP . WRB VBZ DT NN . '' EX VBZ DT NN , '' PRP VBG PRP$ NNS . '' RB EX VBZ DT JJ NN WRB DT NN VBZ DT NN POS NN CC NNS . RB EX VBZ DT NNS . CC RB PRP VBP PRP IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN . CC RB VB IN CD NN , IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBP RB VB IN JJ NNS IN , FW VBZ PRP$ NN VB DT NN IN PRP MD RB VB RP PRP$ NN RB . '' '' PRP VBD IN NN NNS MD VB DT NN PRP VBD IN DT NN VBD DT NN IN PRP DT IN RB . TO VB IN DT NN MD VB , PRP VBD DT NN NN VBG CD JJ NNS IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . DT VBD JJ NN NNS CC VBD RB VBG JJ NN , VBG JJR IN CD NN NN DT NN . 
POS NN DT NN WRB DT NN MD VB PRP$ NN IN VBG DT NN VBZ DT NN IN CD NN IN RB VBG VBN JJ IN DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD VB RB IN DT JJ NN , VBD DT NNS RB VBN CC VBN , MD VB VBN RP IN DT NN IN NN IN DT . '' NNP NNP VBD IN JJS IN DT NNS VBD JJR IN CD NNS IN DT NN NN NN , CC IN VBG RB DT JJS NNS VBD DT NN IN DT NNS . CC PRP VBD IN NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN . CD VBG NNS , '' PRP VBD , '' VBP TO VB JJ WP PRP VBP VBG CC VB NN IN IN DT NN WP VBZ VBD DT JJ NN VBZ RP IN DT JJ NN PRP MD VB VBN IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN . CC VBD VB DT NN VBG DT NN IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' PRP VBD RB VB IN DT JJ NN VBZ DT NN IN DT NN DT JJ NN MD VB VBN . '' 
CC RB RB RB , RB CD NN IN NNP . NNS WP MD VB DT NN VBD PRP ( DT JJ NN VBZ CD NN ) . DT JJ NN VBD WRB DT NN VBD JJ NNS IN NNS CC JJ NNS CC NNS WRB RB PRP VBD VBG CC WRB PRP$ NNS VBN IN DT IN JJ JJ NNS . PRP VBZ RB VBG TO VB DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . '' DT NN , PRP VBP PRP VBP VBG DT RB JJ NN . '' RB CD NN IN NNP . NNS WP MD VB DT NN VBP . VB VBG DT NN IN NN NN RB IN NNS IN NN , DT NNP . VBD CD NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT JJ NN VBD IN NN NNS : NNS , VBG NNS DT NN , WDT MD VB VBN TO RB DT NN NN NNS IN CD NNS IN VBG IN DT NN CC MD VB VBN WRB PRP VBP . NNP , JJR IN NN WP VBP DT NNS VBP PRP . CC JJ NNS , WDT VBP DT NN NN , MD VB NNS , JJ NNS CC VB JJR IN $ CD IN NN IN NN IN CD NNS . 
NNP NNP VBZ RB VBN PRP$ NN TO VB CD NNS . PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN CD , RB , WRB DT NN NN VBD PRP IN PRP MD VB PRP$ NN . NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ IN JJ NNS , RB IN NNP NNP CC NNP . 
DT JJ NN VBZ WRB NN NNS VBP RB RB TO VB IN DT JJ NNS JJ TO VB . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN VBG IN DT NN NN VBZ IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN NN TO VB . VB DT JJ CD NNS , PRP VBZ VBN JJ IN NN NNS VBP RB VB RB PDT DT JJ NNS , CC PRP VBP DT RB JJ JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ IN DT NN , VBD DT JJ NN , CC NNP , VBZ VBN IN IN JJ NNS , VBG PRP TO VB TO JJ NNS IN DT NN WRB PRP VBD RP NN CC VB JJ NNS IN NN . VBG TO NNP NNP , DT NNS VBP VBN RP IN JJ NN , CC PRP VBP RB RB VBN IN IN NN TO VB JJ NN . 
NNP NNP RB VBD IN PRP VBD JJ , CC IN PRP$ NN MD RB VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBZ IN PRP VBZ . EX VBZ DT NN IN RB RB , CC NNP NNP VBZ RB VB WP PRP VBZ CC PRP VBZ RB JJ IN PRP$ NN IN PRP$ NN MD VB DT NN IN VBG DT NN POS NN . DT VBZ NNP NNP POS NN , NNP CD . NNP NNP VBZ VBG DT NN CC VBG TO VB RP DT JJ NN IN DT NN WP$ JJ NN VBD VBN IN PRP$ NN . DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP VBZ VBG DT NN , VBG TO NNP NNP , DT NN POS NN NN . NNP NNS VBD PRP MD RB VB IN DT NN IN DT NN , WDT VBZ RB JJ NNS PRP MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN . WP NNS CC NNS VBZ DT JJ NN VB . WRB MD DT NN IN NNP NNP RB TO VB DT NN WRB DT NN VBD VBN IN PRP$ NN . IN PRP$ NN VBZ , MD NN VB VB IN DT NN POS NNS . 
NNP VBD VBN TO VBG PRP$ NNS : PRP VBD JJ NN NNS VBG DT NN CC PRP$ NNS , CC PRP$ NN NNS VBD , CD NN VBZ JJ , CC PRP MD VB RB TO VB IN DT NN NN CC VB PRP$ NN IN DT NN . '' PRP RB VBD DT JJ NN VBG PRP IN DT NNS . DT NN VBD , NNP CC PRP$ NNS VBD NNS RB IN PRP$ NN : NNP NNP . JJ NNS RB , NNP NNP VBD NN IN DT NNS . DT NN MD VB IN JJR IN $ CD CD . IN NNS WDT VBD IN NN , DT NNP NNP NN VBD IN NNP VBD JJ NN NNS TO NNS IN DT NN NN CC IN PDT DT NN VBN IN NN IN PRP$ NN IN NNP VBD POS JJ IN NNP TO VB DT NN , '' WDT PRP VBD IN JJ . '' ( NNP VBZ RB NN NN : PRP RB VBD TO VB PRP$ JJ NN IN DT NNP . NN , WDT MD VB VBN NNS . ) DT NN VBD NNS IN NNS IN VBG DT NN , PRP VBD : NN IN NNS , NN NNS , DT NN WRB PRP VBD PRP . DT IN DT NN VBD IN JJ JJ NN NNS WDT NNP VBD IN DT NN : DT VBD IN PRP$ NNS . CC DT NN VBD NNP POS NN CC PRP$ NN , NN CC NN NN : PRP$ NN VBD PRP VBD PRP$ JJ NN . RB , DT NN VBD , PRP VBD DT NN NNS . 
DT NNP NNS VBD NNS IN CD NNS PRP VBD VBD NN TO DT NN NN NNS CC DT NNPS IN NNP NNP . EX , NNS VBD TO VB DT NN , DT NN WDT MD VB NNS . RB , PRP VBD PRP$ NN : EX VBD DT NN IN DT IN DT NNS . '' NN , NNP , WDT VBZ JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . VB PRP VBZ DT NN IN DT NN , RB PRP VBZ DT NN NN . WRB VBP RB PRP VB JJ VBG . RB , IN DT NN NN , DT NN MD VB NNS TO DT NN . '' PRP MD RB VB JJ NN NNS IN CD NNS : DT NNS VBD VBN DT NN WDT PRP VBZ NN NNS . CC WRB DT NNPS IN NNP NNP VBD DT CD NNS , PRP$ NNS VBD IN RB CD VBD NNS IN NN NNS CD IN NN . DT NN NN VBD JJ NNS RB , VBG JJ NNS TO VB IN NNS IN DT NN NN . PRP$ NNS RB VBD JJ NNP . NNS IN NNS IN CD IN DT CD NNS WP VBD VBN TO VB JJ NN . RB CD NNP . VBD JJ , CC JJ NNS VBD RB VB IN DT NN VBD VBN IN NN NNS . DT NN NN RB VBD NNS IN NN TO VB WP PRP$ NNS VBD CC WRB PRP VBD . 
IN NNP NN , PRP VBD VBN PRP , IN PRP VBD RB JJ . JJ , DT NNS VBP PRP . PRP VBD RB IN PRP VBD RB EX CC VBD JJ . CC PRP VBD VBN TO DT NN NN IN PRP , TO DT JJ NN IN PRP$ VBG , IN JJS IN PRP VBP PRP . WP PRP VBD IN PRP MD RB VB , CC PRP MD RB RB VB JJ NN , IN , RB , PRP RB VBD TO . PRP CC DT NNS WP VBD IN PRP$ NN VBD RP CD NN CC VBD NN TO VB DT JJ NNS POS NN . IN CD NN IN NNP , DT NN VBN . PRP$ NN VBD VBG . WRB PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBD PRP VBD RP TO DT NN NN . PRP$ NN NN VBD RB VBN IN DT JJ NN CC VBD VBG RB , PRP NN VBD VBG CC DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN VBD VBG . IN DT NN CC DT NN , PRP$ NN VBD TO VB PRP$ JJ . RB PRP VBD DT JJ NN . IN CD NN , PRP VBD NNP , WP VBD RB RB . PRP VBD IN PRP IN PRP$ NN . 
NNP NNP POS NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN VBN NNP , WDT PRP VBD VB . PRP VBZ DT NN NNS , VBZ DT NN POS JJ NNS CC VBZ NN NN TO VB JJ DT JJ NN NNS VBP JJ CC VB NNS IN DT JJ NN . VB IN CD JJ NNS CC CD NNS VBP VBN RP IN NNP CC JJ NNS , VBG TO DT JJ NN IN NN NNS , DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBN IN CD . DT NNS VBP NNS RB JJ IN $ CD DT NN , VBG IN DT NNS VBN . DT NN VBP $ CD TO $ CD . JJ NNS NN IN JJ CC JJ NNS CC JJ NN NN TO DT NN . DT RBS JJ MD RB VB DT NN MD VB NN NNS , VB NNS CC JJ NNS IN NNS TO JJ NNS . IN NNP NNP POS NN IN CD NNS PDT DT NNS VBP JJ NNS . JJ NNS VBP RB VBN IN PRP$ NNS , WP MD RB VB DT NN NNS . IN CD NN IN DT NNS VBP VBN JJ IN NN , '' NNS '' WP DT NNS VBP VBN VBP IN JJ NN IN DT JJ NNS CC WP$ JJ NN NNS VBP VBN . IN DT NN VBZ DT CD NN JJ NN NN , PRP$ VBG NN IN JJ CD NNS VBZ RP RB . 
DT RBR JJ NN IN DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN , WDT VBZ JJ IN DT NN IN NNP . DT VBG NN MD RB VB VBN IN DT NN TO DT NN . PRP VBZ RB DT JJ NN : PRP VBZ IN DT NN NNP VBD VBN IN CC WRB PRP VBD , RB IN DT NN IN DT NNS IN DT NN CC IN NN . DT JJ NN MD VB IN JJ NN . PRP MD RB VB NN NNS IN , VBG TO NNS , VBD NNP TO VB RP DT NN IN NN . JJ IN DT NN VBN IN DT NN NN VBZ VBN VBN IN NNS CC NNS IN NNP CC IN NN NNS CC NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN . CC DT NN VBZ DT JJS NN TO NN IN DT JJ NNS WDT VBD DT NNP RB . WP VBZ VBZ DT NN IN DT NN POS NN , VBN IN NN IN NNP CC JJ NNS . 
CC NNS MD RB VB WDT JJ NNS VBP JJ CC WDT VBP RB : CC CD JJ NNS NN IN JJ NN DT NN , VBG PRP DT JJ JJ NN IN NN NNS IN NNS . PRP MD VB , NNS IN NN NN VBP , DT RB JJ NNS VBP JJ , WRB PRP VBP VBN , CC NNS WDT VBP RB MD RB VB JJ . CC RB DT NN VBZ VBN , NNS CC PRP$ NNS RB VBP VBN TO VB PRP , IN NN CC NN , WDT VBZ JJ NNS JJ CC JJ . NNP NNP NNS IN DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NN WP VBD NN TO VB DT NNS CC NNS IN DT NNP . NN IN CD JJ NN NNS IN CD IN PRP$ JJ NNS . DT NN VBD RB RB VBG DT NN . CC RB RB PRP VBD JJ NN NN CC RB VBD DT NN . IN NNP CD , DT NN VBD PRP $ CD CD , DT JJS NN NN IN DT NN JJ NN IN DT NN . 
CD NNS VBN IN IN NN NNS VBN JJ NN IN IN DT NN IN NNS WP VBP VBG NNS VBD VBN . CC NN VBP NN IN NNS IN NNS CC UH , PRP$ NNP , VBD IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP , NNP NNP NNP , CD , VBD PRP VBZ JJ TO VB WRB JJ CC VBG DT JJ JJ NN MD VB IN PRP VBP VBN CD . NN VBD RB JJ NNS , '' '' PRP VBD . NN VBD JJ NNS . '' DT NNS VBP VBN VBN NNS IN DT NNS . '' VBP VBD JJR NNS IN DT JJ NN IN IN DT JJ CD , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP . NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NN CC NN , VBD IN JJ NNS VBD VBG IN NNS IN VBD VBG PRP . NNP NNP CC JJ NNS VBP IN DT NN VBZ VBG VBN IN NN IN NN IN NNS . 
NN NN VBZ IN JJ NNS . PRP VBZ IN DT JJ NN , CC NN : DT JJ NN IN NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN : TO DT JJR NN , DT JJ NN IN , NNP NNP VBD , VBZ JJ , '' CC RB TO DT NN WDT VBZ IN DT NN IN DT NN . DT JJ NN VBZ RBS , WRB DT NN VBZ IN DT NN . JJ NN IN NNS VBZ VBN TO VB IN JJS NNS , CC EX VBP RB JJ NNS WRB PRP MD VB NNS WDT VBP PDT DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN NN NN , NNS MD VB VBN IN VBG NNS CC NN IN NNS CC VBG JJ NNS IN NN . NNP NN VBD RB RBR VBG IN PDT DT NN IN EX VBP NNS IN JJ JJ NNS TO VB DT NN , VBG IN PRP VBP NN NNS WDT MD VB VBN . RB NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS VBN RP TO VB IN NNS JJ NN PRP MD , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NN VBN NNS , RB , CC IN DT NN POS , NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN WP VBD VBG IN . 
JJ NN NNP NNP NNP VBD CD IN DT JJ NNS DT NN VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN WDT MD VB PRP$ NN . RB , PRP VBD . IN DT JJ NN NN , DT NN VBD PRP VBD VBG JJ NN IN NN NN NN . CC PRP VBD NNS RB JJ IN PRP MD VB DT JJ . IN DT JJ NN , VBG PRP$ JJ NN IN DT NN CC PDT DT JJ NNS WDT VBP VBP NN MD VB NN , NNP NNP VBD RB VBN NN RB IN NNS WRB DT NNS VBD VBN IN JJ NN IN DT NN CC VBD TO VB PRP$ JJ NNS , CC NNS . EX VBZ DT RB JJ NN IN NNS IN DT NNS , RB RB TO VB DT NN NNS VBP . NNP , DT VBG NNS VBP RB RB JJ . NNS VBP IN DT MD RB VB VBG JJ NNS CC VB TO VB VBN . 
RB , PRP VBD , JJR IN CD NN NNS VBP RP IN CD NNS DT NN . IN JJ VBG TO VB DT NN , JJ NNS VBP JJ . DT VBD DT NN IN NNP NNP CC IN NNP NNP , CD , IN NNP , WP VBZ VBN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ CD NNS IN VBN NN NNS IN DT NNP NN , NNP POS NNP . PRP VBZ RB DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . '' NN VBZ VBN RP NN CC VBD PRP PRP VBZ IN PRP VBP JJ . '' DT NN NN WDT NN , PRP VBD , VBG : CD VBP PRP MD VB JJ . PRP VBP RB VBN RB RB IN TO VB DT NN . PRP VBP PRP VBZ . PRP RB VBZ RB VB DT JJ . PRP VBP RB NN IN JJ . '' NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBG NN IN NNS IN DT JJ NN . CD VBD VBG IN JJ NN IN JJ JJ NN . DT VBD NN IN NNP . IN NNS WP RB VBP . 
NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN CC JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN NNS , VBD PRP$ NN VBD TO VB DT NNP CC NNP NNP TO VB DT JJ NN IN CD , VBG NNS VBN IN JJ NN NNS TO VB JJ NN NNS . JJ NN VBZ VBN NN IN DT JJ NNS , PRP VBD . CC VBP VBN NN IN DT JJ NN CC WRB JJS IN DT NNS VBP DT NN VBZ , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP VBZ RB VB JJ NN CC VBZ JJ JJ NN NNS VBN IN NN VBN IN IN NN NNS , VBN IN DT NN IN NN IN NN . NNP NNP , WP RB VBN IN DT NNP NNP , VBD PRP VBD IN DT NN MD VB DT RB , VBG PRP MD VB JJ '' TO VB . EX VBP JJ NNS TO VB IN JJ JJ NN NNS , IN PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN , WDT DT NNS VBP IN JJ NN . JJ NN VBZ RB JJ IN , NNS VBP , PRP VBZ NN IN NN RB IN NN CC NN . NNP VBP IN JJ NN VBZ JJ IN JJ NN , WDT RB JJ IN PRP VBP JJ . 
DT NNP NNP CD JJ NNS TO NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN DT NNS VBD RP IN DT NN IN NNP POS JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBD RB IN DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . NNP NNP VBD PRP$ NN RB , CC RB VBD TO DT NN NN . RB VBP PRP$ NNS . 
DT NN VBZ IN DT NN WRB DT NNS VBP VBN VBG DT NN IN VBG NNS IN JJ NNS , VBG NN CC JJ NNS IN NNS , NN NN IN NNS , CC NN NN IN DT NNS . DT JJ NN VBZ IN DT NNS VBP VBG DT NN IN NNS WDT MD RB VB JJ CC MD RB VB VBN IN NNS WDT MD VB RB , RB VBG JJ NNS TO VB DT NN IN NN , NN CC NN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN VBZ NNS WP VBP IN JJ NN VBZ RB RBR JJ IN NN , CC NNS WP VBP RB RB JJ . DT NN VBZ DT NN IN VBG VBG NNS TO JJ NNS TO VB IN PRP VBP VB NN NN . JJ NNS VBP VBN VBN RB IN NN . CC RB JJ NNS MD RB VB DT NNS . NNP VBZ VBN VBN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN CD JJ JJ NNS , CC NNS VBP IN IN NNS IN DT NNS VBP DT NNS CC RB JJ PRP . 
CC IN DT $ CD CD NN : RB IN NNP POS $ CD CD : NNP . MD VB RBR JJ , CC NNP NNP VBZ VBG TO VB PRP$ JJ NN IN DT JJ NN RB IN DT JJ NN . DT NN RB VBZ DT VBG NN IN NN NNS , JJ NN NNS IN NNS IN CD TO CD NNS WP VBP JJR IN NNS CC WP$ NN VBZ RB RB JJR . CC IN DT JJ NN WRB NN VBZ DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBZ VBG IN WRB TO VB PRP NN . PRP VBD PRP MD VB JJ NNS TO VB CC VB PRP CC VB PRP IN JJ NN . PRP VBD JJ NN IN VBG DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NN NN CC MD VB JJR RB . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNP . POS NN NN IN DT JJ NN , VBD IN NN NNS VBD RB IN DT JJ NN IN PRP VBD NNP NNP POS JJ NNS CC DT JJ NN . 
RB , PRP$ NNS VBD RB DT NN . JJ JJ NNS IN NN NN VBD DT JJ NN IN NN NNS IN NNS WP VBD DT NNS . CC PRP CC DT JJ NNS VBD IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP IN JJ NNS CC NNS IN DT NNS : DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN NN , NN NNS CC NNS CC DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS CC NN NN . IN DT JJ NN , DT NNP POS NNP NNP NNS VBD IN NN IN JJ NNS IN NNS WP RB VBD NN NN . DT NNS RB VBD IN NN NN VBD TO RBR NN NNS , RB JJR . RB RB IN PRP VBD DT NNS IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , '' VBD IN JJ NN VBD DT JJ NN . '' VBZ NN VBN IN DT NN VBZ RB JJ CC JJ JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC EX DT JJ NN IN DT IN DT NNS . '' 
DT RB VBN JJ NN VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN , NNS VBP VBG NN , IN NNS WDT MD RB VB TO JJ NNS TO VB CC VB DT NN . DT NNS VBP DT NN IN NN NNS , '' NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN IN DT JJ NNP , WDT VBZ VBG CD NNS IN DT NNS NN . JJ NNS VBD IN DT JJ NNS RB VBD NN TO DT RB JJ NN IN WRB NNS VBP CC VBP . DT NNS NN NN POS , WDT VBP JJ NNS IN JJ NN WDT NN VB DT NN IN JJ NNS . DT NN VBD VBN IN DT JJ CD POS , IN DT NN , CC IN JJ NNS NNS VBP VBN VBG PRP RB , VBG IN JJS CD IN JJ NNS . DT JJ NN VBZ VBN NNS IN NNP POS NN IN VBG DT NN IN NNS . DT JJ NN VBD IN NNS , WDT VBP VBN IN NNP , VBP DT NNS IN NN , WDT VBP RP RB IN DT NN IN NNS CC VB JJS IN DT NNS . IN DT NN , NNP , DT NN IN NN NN IN NNP , VBD RB IN DT NN VBN IN NNP TO VB DT NN IN DT NN TO DT NN POS JJ NN . 
NNP NNP NNP VBD PRP$ JJS NN TO VB NN MD VB DT NN . IN CD NNS CD NNS , PRP VBD TO VB CD NNS , RB IN CD . DT JJ NN : CC VBP VBN CC VBN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN '' : PRP VBD PRP MD RB VB JJ . CC IN NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN NNP NNP , NNP , VBZ PRP VBZ JJ , PRP VBZ IN PRP$ JJ NN MD VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN . CC , IN NN , PRP VBZ TO VB JJ . CC VBP DT JJ , '' PRP VBZ . '' VBP IN DT NN WRB NNS VBP TO VB JJ . '' WP MD VB IN NNS IN NNP NNP TO VB TO VB NN . IN NNS DT NN VBZ RB RB VBN DT NNS PRP . DT RB MD VB . IN DT NN IN NNP , NNP POS NNS MD VB DT NN , NN CC NN IN CD RB JJ NN IN JJ NN : NN : IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN WDT MD VB TO DT NN IN JJ NN TO VB DT NN IN JJ NN NNS . 
DT NN IN DT , RB RB IN JJ JJ NNS VBP VBN , VBZ IN PRP VBZ NNS RB IN WP PRP VBP IN DT JJ NN : DT NN WDT VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN IN NN CC NN . PRP$ JJ NN VBZ RB DT NN : DT NN IN NNS CC JJ NNS : CC DT NN , DT NN IN NNS TO VB CC VB . IN NNP VBZ IN DT NNP NN IN JJ : POS NN VBZ TO RB VB DT NN NN IN NN , CC RB VB NNS TO VB PRP . PRP VBZ NN IN DT RB JJ NN . PRP VBP PRP RB JJ . '' IN NNPS IN DT JJ VBP RB VB JJ DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NN , JJ VBP VB EX VBZ NN JJ IN DT RB JJ NN . DT NN , VBG TO NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP TO NNP NNP NNP , VBZ TO DT NN IN DT NN CC MD VB DT NNS . CD IN DT NNS PRP VBP RBS RB VBN VBZ WRB DT NN CC JJ NN NNS VBP RB JJ JJR IN NNP , '' PRP VBZ . JJ NN IN DT JJ NN TO NN RB , CC PRP VBP PRP VBZ RB DT NN IN DT VBG JJ NNS . IN NNP , DT NNS VBP IN DT JJ , CC DT JJ NN VBZ TO VB JJ . RB IN DT NNP , NNS VBP RB VBG IN IN PRP VBZ NNP . TO VB NN . '' 
NNP NNP , IN NNP , VBD RB JJ IN DT NN , CC VBD : CD JJ , PRP VBP JJ IN PDT DT NN . NNS VBP IN RB CD NN IN NN NN VBZ JJ TO VB NN NNS CC DT JJ CD NN VBZ RP IN NNS , IN PRP VBZ DT NN JJ WRB NNS VBP IN PRP VBP TO VB IN JJ NN TO VB '' EX VBZ DT NN TO NN IN DT NN . '' NNP NNP , IN DT NNP NN , VBD PRP$ JJ NNS . VBG RB IN DT JJ NN VBD JJ NN IN JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ IN DT NN WP VBZ DT NN NN CC NNS , EX VBZ DT NN . '' '' NNP IN DT NNS VBP VBN PRP$ JJ NN NNS . NNP NNP , IN NNP , RB VBD DT NN IN NNP NNP TO VB PRP$ NN POS NN NN . PRP MD RB VB IN NN , '' PRP VBD . JJ NNS VBP JJ IN JJ NN . PRP VBP VBN VBG NNS IN NN CC DT NN IN DT NN NNS , CC PRP VBP DT NN TO VB . DT VBZ RB IN VBG RB : EX VBZ DT NN TO VB . PRP VBZ IN VBG TO VB RP DT NN . '' 
PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NNP VBD NNP . PRP VBD IN CD NN CC RB JJ NN TO DT JJ , VBG IN DT NNS IN PRP VBD . NNP VBD IN JJ NN , '' WDT VBZ TO VB NN WP VBD IN DT NN IN NNS CC IN NNP , VBZ RB VB DT NN NN IN NN . PRP VBD RB VB IN DT NN VBZ DT NN . '' NNP VBD PRP DT JJ NN IN JJ NN POS NN . CC VBD RB VB DT NN MD RB VB IN NN : IN NN : IN PRP VBD DT , DT . . . . '' PRP VBD , VBG IN DT JJ NN IN NN . NN . '' NNP POS NN VBZ JJ NN TO DT NN , CC PRP VBD VBN RB IN NNP NNP , DT JJ , JJ NN NN WP VBZ JJS IN DT NNPS POS NN . PRP VBD TO VB IN DT NN IN JJ NNS WDT VBD NN IN PRP , RB VB PRP$ NNS CC NN IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS TO VB . 
CC RB NNP VBD VBN . DT JJ NNS RB , IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBD . WRB PRP VBD IN JJ NN , JJ NNS VBN TO VB IN RB VBG DT NN . PRP$ NN , RB JJ , VBD IN IN PRP VBP PRP$ NN TO DT NN , PRP MD VB TO VB . DT , IN DT , VBD WP NNS VBD : CC DT RBR VBG DT NN , DT JJR . DT JJ IN NN VBD VBN TO VB VBN IN DT VBG NN . NNS VBP VBG . IN DT NN DT JJ NNS RB , CD NN IN JJ NNS IN NNP NNP NNP VBD IN IN IN NN NNS , PRP VBD VBG RB RB JJ NNS IN NN NN . JJ NN IN NNS VBD IN PRP VBD VBN NN TO VB DT NN TO VB IN PRP$ JJS RB JJ NNS . NNS VBG VBN VBP VBG RP JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN NNP . NNP IN NNP , RB VBD PRP . CD IN DT JJ NN NNS VBP RB VBG DT JJS JJ NNS . '' 
DT NNS VBP DT NN NNS MD VB RB JJ CC JJ TO VB IN DT JJ JJ . CC NNS VBP DT NNS MD VB RB TO DT JJ CD NNS RB . IN JJ NNS MD VB VBN TO VB DT NNS RB , RB PRP VBP VBN DT NN MD VB VBN IN DT NN . CC DT NN IN NNS WDT VBP VB VBN MD RB VB . NNP VBD RP VBG CD NNS CC VBD IN RB CD VBD VBN TO VB NN NN NN . VBZ DT NN DT MD VB RB JJ NNS WDT MD VB VBN RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN IN NNP NNP POS NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP , WP VBD NNS MD VB JJ TO VB DT JJ NNS TO VB IN DT NNS . NNP IN JJ JJ NN , IN NN , RB JJ JJ JJ NNS VBG IN $ CD TO VB VB DT NN TO VB VB NN , PRP VBD . CC IN DT RB VBN NN VBG CD JJ NNS , CD IN DT JJS NN NN NNS TO NN , NNP . NNP CC NNS VBD IN DT JJ NNS MD VB DT NNS RB RB IN PDT DT JJ NNS VBN , IN RB RBR RB . 
RB PRP VBD IN . WRB PRP VBD IN CD NN VBD VBN CD NNS IN DT NN IN CD NNS , PRP VBD PRP . IN DT JJ CD NNS , PRP VBD CD NNS WP VBD VBG JJR IN PRP$ NN IN NNS . PRP RB VBD CD NNS WP VBD RB VBG RB NNS TO VB JJ : CC IN DT NNS TO VB WRB JJ PRP VBD . NNS VBD TO VB PRP MD VB JJ , '' PRP VBZ . DT JJ NN VBD JJ NNS CC JJ NN NN . CC NN , NNP NNP POS NN VBZ VBG JJ NN NNS CC VBZ VBN WP NNS VBP VBZ RB RB JJ DT NN IN NN IN NN MD VB . JJ NN NN IN DT NN MD VB VBG NN IN DT , '' VBZ NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NNP NNP POS NN NN . NNP JJ VBP . IN NN , WP NNP NNP VBZ VBN VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN JJ : DT NN WDT VBZ RB JJ CD NNS IN NNP VBD RP TO VB PRP RP IN PRP$ JJ NN IN JJ NN . 
DT VBG NN IN JJ NN NNS VBZ VBN RB JJ IN NNS VBG VBN IN JJ NN NNS VBG IN NN , NN NN CC VBZ TO NN CC NN NN , RB RB IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . JJ NNP , DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBD IN JJ NN NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN DT NN , RB IN DT JJ . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP CC DT JJ NN IN DT NN , VBD IN NNS CD NNS CC JJR VBD JJR IN RB IN JJ TO VB VBN IN DT NN NN IN JJ NN NNS CC RB CD NNS RB JJ TO VB NN IN NNS JJR IN CD . NNP DT IN DT JJ NNS VBD JJ TO JJ NNS CC , IN DT , NNS VBD JJ TO JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN IN NNS RB VBN TO VB JJ NN TO VB JJ NNS . 
JJ IN NNP POS JJS JJ NNS MD VB VB DT NN IN DT NN , CC NNS WP$ NNS VBP VBN EX MD VB VBN TO NNP IN NN NNS CC JJ NNS , NN IN JJ NNP NNS MD VB VB CC VB JJ IN . DT NN MD VB NNP NNP POS NN IN VBG JJR IN DT NN POS NN IN JJ NN IN DT JJR NN IN NNS . JJ NN TO JJ NN VBZ JJ TO JJ NNS IN NN , DT NNS VBD . JJ NN VBZ DT NNP . CD NN WDT NNS VBP IN JJ NNS IN NN , CC NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS IN NN VBP VBN RB IN NNS IN IN NNS . IN NN , IN DT JJ NN IN JJR IN CD NNS IN NNP WDT VBD IN CD , RB CD NN VBD VBN NN NN CD NNS IN NN , VBN IN JJ NNS VBP TO CD NN , NNP NNP VBD . VBN IN DT NN , DT NN VBD IN RB CD NN IN DT NNS VBD NN , CC DT RBS JJ , NNS . IN DT NN POS NN , DT NN VBZ VBN TO CD NN , NNP NNP VBD . 
RB , NNS MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ JJ NN , CC DT MD VB DT RB JJR NN CC MD VB JJR NNS TO NNS IN DT JJ NN . DT VBZ IN NN NNS VBP RBR RB IN DT NN IN NNS CC JJ NNS , IN IN CD JJ NNS . DT VBP IN PRP VBZ JJ TO VB DT JJ NN WDT MD RB VB IN DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN . IN JJ , DT VBZ DT NN NN . IN NNS VBP VBG JJ NN NN CC JJ NNS . NNP NNS VBP VBG IN DT NN , CC NN VBZ VBG JJ CC JJR NNS . DT NN . NNP NN NN VBN JJ NN . VB 
IN DT NN , NNS RB VBP IN NNS VBN IN NNS VBN NN NN NNS TO VB NNS . IN JJ NNS , NNS IN DT NN IN NN , VBP , VBZ VBN IN NNS IN PRP$ JJ '' NN . IN NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN NNS VBN , VBN IN DT NN VBN IN DT NN . DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN TO VB DT RB JJ NN TO JJ NN . JJ NNS , NNS VBD , VBP IN JJ NNS . RB , NNS VBP RB VB VBD NNS RB TO DT NN IN DT JJ NN CC NN VBZ VBN , CC RB RB PRP MD RB VB RB . IN NN , NN NNS VBP RB RB VBN IN DT NN VBZ TO VB IN PRP$ JJ NN MD VB VBN TO DT NN . JJ NNS VBP RB VB DT NN . CC JJ NN VBZ DT NN IN DT VBZ DT JJ NN WDT VBZ RB VB IN NNS VBP DT NNS CC VB PRP TO NNP . IN PRP VBZ DT NN IN NNS WDT VBP VBN , '' VBD NNP NNP . NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN NNP NNP . 
NNS MD VB PRP , '' PRP VBD . MD VB PRP VBZ DT JJ NN CC IN PRP VBD TO VB TO VB IN NN , PRP VBP PRP MD VB JJ . IN PRP VBD TO VB JJ , PRP VBP RB JJ PRP MD VB PRP . '' IN DT NNP NN : NNP NNP NN 
CC PRP VBP VB DT IN DT JJS NNS , IN DT JJ NN : IN IN PRP VBP DT NN IN NN PRP VBP RB RB VBG DT NN IN NNS . DT JJ NN MD VB WRB NNS IN NN NNS JJ IN NN VBP JJR NNS IN JJ NN NN CC NN IN DT WDT VBP RB . CC NN VBZ PRP TO VB RB IN DT NN : NN IN DT NN PRP , TO DT JJ NN , WDT NNS VBP RB VBN TO VB DT JJ NN . IN PRP VBP VBN WRB NN NNS , IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP , NN TO VB IN VBG JJ NN RB VBZ DT NN IN NN NN CC NN . IN NN NNS TO DT JJ NN ( VBN IN DT RB JJ NN JJ NN ) , PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB PRP$ NN IN JJ NN IN RB VBG PRP$ NN IN JJ NN : RB VB DT JJ NN CC NN DT NN NN NN CC DT JJ NN . CC RB DT NN NN IN NN CC NN VBZ DT NN NN PRP , IN DT NNS RB VBP . ( DT NNP JJ NNP NNP NNP VBZ RB JJ IN PRP$ JJ NN , '' NNP NNP . '' ) CC , IN DT NNP NN NNP NNP NNP VBZ , PRP MD VB DT JJ NNS RB JJ IN DT NN CC NN : DT NNS ( WDT VBP RB IN NN CC NN CC VBP RB VBN IN JJ NN ) VBP VBN TO VB JJ NNS . 
RB EX VBZ , RB , DT NN TO VB NN IN VBG NN , RB IN DT JJ . NNS WDT MD VB NNS TO VB JJR NNS , VB VBG NNS VBG NNS CC NN , CC RB IN VBP VBN VBN IN DT NN IN NN NNS . IN DT NN , NNP : IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS : VBZ VBN JJ JJ NNS IN NN NNS . CC RB DT JJ NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NN IN NNS . WRB . IN NN , DT VBZ RB DT JJ JJ NN . IN JJ , NNS VBG JJ JJ NNS VBP JJR IN JJ CC JJ NNS , CC NNS IN DT NNP CC NNP VBP JJR IN DT IN DT NNS . IN PRP VBZ DT RB JJ IN NNS IN NNP POS NN TO VB RP IN JJ NN . RBR JJ , RB , VBZ DT NN IN DT NN NN . DT NN IN NN , PRP VBZ RP , VBZ DT NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN . IN DT NNS , JJ NNS VBP PRP$ NNS RB RB IN VBG IN NNS PRP VBP RB VB , CC RB IN VBG NN NNS VBD TO VBG NN WP$ NNS PRP VBP RB VB . 
NNP NNP VBD PRP VBZ NNP NNP NNP TO NNP IN JJ NNS , JJ IN PRP VBG TO VB IN NN CC RB , RB VBN NNS CC NNS . PRP RB VBD PRP VBZ JJ NN IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNS . CC PRP VBD IN IN NN NN VBD VBN IN PRP$ NNP NNP NNS JJ NNS RB , PRP RB VBD TO PRP$ NN IN NNP IN JJ NN . PRP VBZ RB VBN IN NN : WP MD PRP VB . '' NNP NNP VBD , VBG , '' RB PRP VBP RB VB NN JJ , IN PRP VBP VBG NNP NNP NNP . '' 
NNP NNP VBD NNP NNP VBD IN NN IN DT NN IN PRP RB VBD PRP$ NN IN CD IN VBG PRP$ NN IN JJ NN , VBG IN PRP MD VB NN IN VBG PRP$ NN . RB , NNP NNP VBD , DT CD VBD DT JJ NN IN WDT DT NNP VBD NNP NNP VBP NN IN NN CC JJ JJ NNS . '' NN VBZ PRP RB JJ IN JJ NN VBZ JJ IN DT NN POS NN IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBD DT NN NN VBG NNP NNP POS NN IN DT NN IN NNS CC JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . DT NN IN NNS IN DT CD IN NNP , NNP NNP , VBD NNS IN DT NNP POS NN . NNP NNP , JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP , VBD DT NNP VBD IN DT NN VBD DT NNS IN NNS TO VB DT NN . 
NNS MD RB VB DT NN IN DT NN VBZ , IN PRP MD VB DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN DT NN , DT NNS VBP VBN VBG NN , DT NN VBN TO VB NN NNS , TO VB NNS . DT NN VBZ JJ , CC PRP$ NN VBZ RB JJ IN NN VBD RB RB VBN CC VBZ RB VBN IN DT NN NN . DT NN TO VB DT NN IN NN , NNP NNP , DT NNP . NN , VBD , VBZ DT NN POS JJ JJ NN TO VB IN NNS TO NN DT NN . NNP VBD JJ NN CD NNS RB , PRP VBD . VB MD VB RB RB TO VBG IN NNS VBD RB VB DT NN IN DT , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NNS WP VBP PRP CC DT NNS WP VBP DT NN VBP IN PRP VBP PRP$ NNS VBN IN DT JJ NN IN PRP VBP IN PRP . DT VBP JJ NNS . '' NNP NNP NNP NNP 
CD JJ NNS VBG NNS IN NNS VBP VBN TO VB CD IN DT RBS RB VBN NN IN JJ CC NN : IN VBG JJ , JJ NNS MD VB DT NN IN NN CC JJ NN . DT NNS VBD IN CC VBG DT JJ NN IN JJ NN , RB IN PRP IN NNS CC NNS , CC VBG JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN NN VBD DT NN IN NN NN NN . CC IN DT NNS VBP EX VBZ RB DT NN IN NN VBZ VB NN NN , NNS VBP PRP VBZ NN TO VB VBG NNS IN PRP MD . VB IN NN NN VBD DT NN , VBN IN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP IN NNP , VBD PRP VBD . NNP CC JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNPS , IN NN NN , CC VBZ VBN IN CD NNS DT NN . JJ NNS VBP IN DT JJ NN MD VB PRP . 
NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP NNP JJ NN IN NNP CD IN DT NN IN DT JJ NNS NNP CC NNP VBD RB TO DT NN IN DT NN IN PRP . IN DT NN VBD DT JJ NN : WDT VBZ , DT NNS VBD VBN TO NN NNS IN DT JJ JJ NN : DT NN VBD DT NNS . NNS IN NNP , CC NN , VBD VBN CD NNS DT NN . NNS IN NNP , CC NN , VBD VBN PDT DT NN , CD NNS DT NN , IN DT VBD DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN . ( NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP , VBZ IN VBN NN IN DT JJ NN . ) DT NN , VBN IN DT NNP NNP CC VBN IN NNP , DT NN IN NNP , VBD VBN TO VB DT NNS IN JJ CC JJ NNS IN VBG NN . ( IN DT JJ NN , DT NNP NNS VBD PRP$ JJ NN NN NNS : NNP . POS : IN CD IN NN TO CD . DT NNS IN NNP NNS VBD TO DT NN IN CD . NNP NN VBD IN DT VBG NNP : PRP VBD CD NN IN DT IN NNP IN CD NNS . DT NNS VBP VBN TO VB JJ NN NNS . ) 
IN DT JJ NN , JJ NNS MD VB NN , RB IN PRP VBP RB IN PRP$ NNS . CC IN PRP VBZ RB DT NN , NNS CC NNS MD VB IN NN , RB VBG DT NN IN NN . IN DT NN , DT JJ NNS VBP IN NNS TO VB JJ NNS CC NNS VBD RP VBG DT NN IN JJ NNS VBP JJ NNS . DT NN NN NNS IN NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP , VBP DT NN IN JJ CC NN . '' CC , NNP NNP VBD , NNS CC NNS VBP VBN IN PRP . IN DT NNS PRP VBP VBN , DT JJ NN NNS VBP VBN PRP$ JJ JJ NNS RB . IN NN , NNP , DT NN POS JJS NN NN , VBN IN NNP IN PRP$ JJ NN NNS VBD VBN IN CD NN . NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN NN NNS IN DT NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD EX VBD DT JJ NN . CC VBP RB VB PRP VBZ RB JJ NN NN , '' PRP VBD , NNP POS RB NN . '' 
NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD IN PRP$ NN VBD VBG IN NN NNS CC VBG TO VB NNS . CC VBP IN IN CC JJ PRP MD VB IN EX MD VB DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC MD PRP VB DT IN DT NNS IN DT NN . RB RB . '' IN NNP , WRB NNP NNP NNS , NN NNS MD VB IN DT NN CC NN DT NNS , IN VBG NNS POS NNS . PRP MD NN NNS IN NNS CD NNS IN VBG DT NN . DT NN RB VBZ IN NN NNS VBP DT VBN NN IN DT NN WRB PRP MD VB NNS . CC NN NNS VBP . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP , VBD IN IN CD NNS , NNS MD VB VBN IN DT NN VBZ DT NN . DT NNS IN CD NNS VBP IN NNS VB VBN IN NN CC RB VB IN DT NN IN NN IN VBG CD . JJ NNS , IN NNP CC NNP NNP CC NNP , VBP IN NNS VBP JJ NNS . IN NNP NNP , DT NNS MD VB VBN , VBD CC VBN . 
NNP NNP VBD JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ JJ NNS NN NNP IN PRP VBZ NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , DT JJ JJ NNS WDT VBZ VBP IN NNS TO VB PRP JJ RB NNS VBP VBN VBN . VBN IN NNP , DT NN POS JJ NN , NNP NNP POS NNS IN NNS VBD $ CD CD , JJR IN CD NNS PRP$ JJ NNS IN DT NN DT NN RB . NN VBD RB JJ , DT NN VBD , IN PRP VBD NNP , VBD JJ NN , JJR IN CD NNS TO VB PRP$ NN IN CD NN IN DT NN IN RB CD NNS VBD VBN IN NNP WRB NNS IN NN NNS VBD PRP TO CD NNS CC IN CD NNS . NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP POS NN CC JJ NN , VBD IN NNP IN NNP MD VBG PRP TO VB DT JJ NN PRP VBD VBN PRP MD VB . '' CC EX VBP NNS IN DT NN IN NNP : VBG NN IN IN NNP VBZ JJR TO VB , NNP CC NN : NNP POS NNP , DT RB JJ JJ NN VBD IN NN IN DT NNP NNPS , MD VB JJR NNS IN JJS NNS . 
NNP NNP , NNP NNP POS NNP FW NNP NN , VBD NNP NNP POS NN VBZ NN . CC NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ TO VB JJ TO VB DT JJ NNS CC VB DT TO NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NN POS NN IN NN NN . TO VB DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD DT NN TO RB CD NN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NN IN NNP . PRP VBD IN IN NNP DT CD NNS . NNP NNP , DT NN CC DT NN IN CD , VBD PRP VBD PRP JJ TO VB . NN VBD DT JJ NNP POS NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , CD , DT JJ NN NN WP VBD IN PRP VBD VBG CD NNS CC VBG RB PRP$ NN . NNP NNP VBZ JJ TO DT NN , NN IN PRP$ NN VBD VBN IN NNS RB RB RB . DT NN , NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN , VBD DT NN IN VBG PRP$ NN , VBG PRP$ NN CC VBG PRP TO VB NNS PRP$ NN VBD VBN VBG IN NNS . 
NN POS RB DT NN NNS NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , CC CD IN DT JJS NNS IN NN NN . WDT VBD RP IN DT JJ NN IN NNS VBZ RB DT RB JJR CD , CC NNS VBP VBG TO VB IN PRP$ JJ . '' NNP NN VBZ VBN DT JJ NN IN DT NN . NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ JJR NN IN DT NN , VBZ PRP VBZ JJ NN WDT VBD PRP MD . '' IN CD , DT JJ NN VBD IN VBG DT JJ NN IN NN NN NNS IN CD NNS IN JJ NN MD VB NN . IN NNP , CC NN , VBZ RB VBN DT NN NN , DT NN RBR RB VBZ TO NN NNS . NNP VBZ DT NN RB TO CD NNS IN NN . DT NN NN NN VBZ NN . NNS VBP PRP RB VBP RB VB WRB DT NN VBZ . PRP CC VBZ NN CC VBZ DT JJ NN IN VBG TO DT NN . VBG IN WDT NN VBZ VBN CC WRB JJ PRP VBZ VBN IN NN , PRP VBZ NN IN CD TO CD NN IN NNS . NNP NN VBZ IN PRP MD VB NN RB IN VBN CD NNS IN NN . DT NNS VBZ CD NNS VBN CD NNS RB , VBG DT JJ NN IN NN CC , IN DT NN IN CD NN , NNP , NN . 
NNS VBP EX VBZ RB VBN IN JJR NNS IN NN NNP CC NNP CC NNP . IN VBG NNS VBP RB RB NN CC MD VB JJ NN NNS . JJR NNS VBP RB VBN IN JJ NNS , VBG JJ JJ NN , WDT VBZ IN CD NNS DT NN , CC JJ NN , WDT VBZ JJ NN . IN IN DT JJ NN , IN EX VBP JJ NNS IN NNS IN NNS CC VB RB , DT NNS RB VBP DT NN . NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN IN NNS , VBG PRP JJ IN DT JJ NN TO VB IN DT IN PRP . RB IN DT NN MD VB VBN IN NNS IN NNS IN DT JJ NN , DT JJ NN MD VB TO VB RB JJ IN PRP$ NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS . NNP NNS VBD TO NN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN VBN IN NNP WDT MD VB DT NN POS NN IN CD NNS TO CD . 
PRP VBZ JJ WRB DT NNS MD VB IN PRP$ JJ NN IN NNP CC IN DT NNP . MD VB PRP$ NN . DT NNP NN VBZ NN CC VBZ RB RBR JJ IN NN NN NNS IN DT NNP NN , WDT IN CD VBD NN , CC NNP , DT NN WDT VBZ NN IN DT JJ JJ NNS IN NN . IN DT NNS VBP NN NNS IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP , WP VBZ VBD PRP VBZ RB VB JJ NN , PRP RB VBP CD IN DT JJS NNS IN NN NN , NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . IN DT NNS IN DT NN , JJ NNS TO DT NN , RB RB IN JJ NNS TO VB NN , VBP VBN . DT NN VBZ VBG NNS CC NNS DT JJ NNS DT TO VB . NNS VBP JJ NN MD VB DT NNS VBP TO VB . JJ NNS RB VBP RB VB IN PRP , CC DT WP VBP RB VBP RB VB NNS IN PRP VBP PRP . 
CD NNS RB , WRB NNP NNP , DT NNP NN , VBD CD , PRP VBD PRP JJ NN . DT NN POS NN VBD PRP DT NN WDT JJ NN . DT JJ NN : WDT VBZ VBN TO JJ NNS IN NNS IN NNP NNP DT NN : VBD JJ NN . JJR IN DT NN RB , NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN DT NN . CC JJ NN , PRP$ JJ NN VBD RP RB DT JJ NN . CC VBD DT JJ NN IN VBD PRP$ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN CD IN CD , DT NNP NNP NN NN IN NN NN NN CC NN . CC NN VBZ VBZ IN JJ NN VBZ NNS IN PRP DT JJS NN IN NN . CD IN PRP$ NNS VBD NNS WDT MD RB VB VBN CC VBD DT NNS . '' CC IN JJ NNP NNP NNS , DT JJ NN IN NNS MD VB VBZ RB RBR TO VB IN . DT VBG NN IN NNS VBP RB RBR VBG DT NN , CC DT VBZ IN NNS VBP VBG TO VB CD NNS TO CD NNS IN NNS . NNS VBP DT NN IN VBG NNS , IN NNS IN DT NNS , CC JJ NNS , IN NNS IN NNS IN NN NN CC NNS . DT JJ NNS MD RB VB VBN IN DT NN CC IN JJS , CD . 
NN NN VBZ IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT JJ , '' NNP NNP NNP , NNP IN NNP , VBD IN DT JJ JJ NN VBG IN NNP JJ NN . CC NN VBZ IN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS VBP TO VB RP DT NNS IN NNS , DT NN NN NN MD VB RB RBR JJ IN PRP VBZ NN . '' CC IN NNP NNP , WP VBZ $ CD DT NN , DT NNS VBN IN NN NN MD VB PDT DT NN . NNP NNP VBD IN JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS IN NNP . NNP NNS , JJ NNS CC VBN NNS VBD RB CC NN . WRB DT NN VBD VBN CC NNP NNP VBD NN , NNP NNP RB VBD PRP IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS , CC RB IN JJ NN NNS IN NN IN DT JJ NN WDT VBD VBN . NNP NNP POS JJ NN VBD JJ , IN NN IN DT NNS WDT MD VB DT NN IN JJ NN : DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN NNS , DT JJ NN CC NN NNS , DT NN NNS IN NNS VBN IN VBG NN . NNP NNP POS NN VBD DT PRP$ NNS , NNS CC NNS . PRP RB VBD PRP IN DT NNS CC VBD PRP RB RB IN JJ TO VB JJ NN VBD RB . 
IN PRP VBP IN DT NN IN NN , NNS IN NN MD VB IN JJ JJ NNS IN NN ( IN IN NNP ) CC NN ( IN IN NNP ) NN RB RB , VBP JJ JJR IN DT JJ NNS , CC VBP RB VBN TO VB DT NN IN NN NNS . IN NN , CD IN DT JJ NNS IN DT JJ NNS : IN PRP VBP RBR JJ TO VB NN NNS IN JJ NNS : MD VB RB JJ . NNP , CC WP MD VB JJR NN , VBZ IN IN NNS VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN , IN JJ NNS NNPS VBD NN TO VB . DT JJ VBZ DT NN IN DT NNS IN DT NN CC DT NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN NN WDT VBD NNS IN $ CD CD IN CD . RB IN VBG DT JJ NN IN NNS IN NN NN : WP RB VBP VBN IN RB CC VBP RB JJ NNS IN JJ NNS : DT NN NN NNS WDT VBD PRP . IN DT JJ NN , NNP VBD IN JJS $ CD CD DT NN IN JJ NNP NN , IN DT NN POS NNS CC PRP$ NNS VBN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS VBG NNS VBG NNP POS NN NN NN . DT NNP CC NNP NNP MD VB VBN NNP TO VB DT JJ NN NNS , CC RB PRP VBD DT NN . 
IN WP VBZ JJR . VBG CD NN CC DT NNS . NNP RB NN CC JJ NN . JJ NNS CC JJ NN NN . TO VB DT NN , DT NNS VBP VBN JJ NNS . DT JJS CC RBS JJ VBZ VBN DT NN NN . NNS VBP VBN TO VB VBG DT NNS IN DT JJ NN : DT NN , NN IN NN CC VBD NN NN . ( NNS VBP TO VB VBG DT JJ NN IN DT NN WRB PRP VBP VBG PRP IN DT NNS , RB NN , VBD RB JJ NNS . ) RB DT NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN VBZ WDT MD VB PRP . CC IN DT NN VBZ , DT NN MD VB . IN DT NNS , WP VBZ IN NN MD DT JJ NN NN . DT JJR DT NNS , DT JJR DT NN . IN NN , DT NN IN NNS IN JJ NNS , VBG NN , VBD IN PRP MD VB DT NN RB IN EX VBD RB DT CD NN NN PRP MD VB , VBG TO DT NN VBN IN NNP NNP POS NN IN NNP . 
DT JJ JJ NNS : IN NN , DT NNP NN , DT NN CC DT NNP NN IN NN : VBP VBN TO VB JJ NNS IN JJ NN , VBG NNS TO VB NN CC NN PRP IN NNS VBP . CC JJ JJ JJ NNS , WDT VBP PRP$ NNS IN DT NN VBZ VBN , VBP VBN RB TO RB JJ NNS IN DT NN IN NN . PRP VBP VBG DT JJ NN IN VBG RB DT JJ NN IN NNS IN VBG DT NN TO VB , RB JJ , NN PRP VBP RB RB VB . DT VBZ JJ IN NN CC DT NN JJ NN , CC NNP , NN : CD NN NNS IN JJS NNPS RB VB MD VB VB DT JJ NN . IN DT NN , DT NN VBZ JJ . NNP NN VBZ DT JJ RBS JJ NN IN NN NN IN NNS , IN NN NN , CC NN NN VBZ JJ IN NNS . DT NNS MD VB NNS WRB PRP VBP JJ . NN NN MD RB VB NN NNS RB RB JJR IN CD NNS VBN IN DT NN , IN DT NNP . NN NNS VBP NNS IN JJ CD NNS IN DT JJ NN NN . CC IN JJ NN RB VBD , RB DT NN NN , CC NNS IN CD IN DT NN , MD VB RP RB JJR CC JJR NNS VBP VBN . DT NN NNS CC NNS RB VBP IN EX VBZ JJ NN IN CC VBG NN VBZ VBN DT NN NN RB IN PRP$ JJ NN . 
POS JJ NN RB , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' IN NNS MD VB JJ TO DT NN : NNS VBP JJ , RB IN JJ NNS : CC VBP IN EX VBZ DT NN TO VB IN DT NN NN . '' NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP IN JJ NN IN NNS POS NNS IN NN NN VBD RB TO DT NN IN DT NN . IN PRP VBZ TO VB RB , PRP VBZ RB RB NN . 
JJ NNS MD VB RP IN DT NN VBZ TO VB IN DT , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBZ VBG VBG NN IN NNS RB DT JJS NN TO VB PRP : NN NNP NNP NNP VBD JJ NN IN PRP$ NN NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP . CD . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD PRP MD RB VB RB WP PRP$ NN NN IN DT NN IN NNP CD , WRB PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS CC NN IN NN IN DT NN CC DT NN . CC JJ PRP VBD DT NN , '' NNP VBD PRP$ NN CD NNS RB . VB PRP VBP DT NN CC PRP VBP IN DT JJ NN CC PRP$ NN NNS IN NN , PRP VBP TO VB RP IN PRP VBP DT NN . '' PRP VBD NNS . PRP VBD IN DT NN MD VB VBN . PRP VBD RB IN NN CC VBD RB VB TO VB RB . 
NNS VBP RB VB PRP VBZ JJ CC JJ TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NNS WDT VBD VBN IN PRP VBG DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN NNP , NNP NNP , WP VBD PRP$ JJ NN IN NNP , VBD DT NN IN DT NNP . VBD VBN IN DT NN . DT JJ NN , DT NN VBD DT NN IN PRP$ NNP NN . DT NN VBZ NNS TO DT NN POS NN IN DT JJ NN NN , VBG VBG DT JJ NN NN . JJ NNS VBN IN DT NN , VBG NNP NNP , NNP CC NNP CC NN : NNP , VBD IN PRP VBD VBN DT JJ NNS CC VBD IN DT NN IN VBG RB , CC IN DT NNS MD VB IN DT NN POS NN IN DT NN . 
CD NNS IN VBG NN NNS , NNS IN NN NN NNS VBD RP JJR IN $ CD CD IN NNS CC NNS TO NNS VBG NNS . RB , JJ NN , VBD DT NN IN NNS . DT JJ JJ NN VBD DT NN VBG DT NNS VBD VBN RB : NNS , DT NNS VBD , VBD RB VB JJ NNS IN DT . VBG JJR NNS , DT NNP IN NNP IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS VBD NN NNS MD VB JJ NNS . CC DT NN VBD EX VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NNS VBD DT RBR JJ NNS IN DT NNS VBD VBN IN PRP , IN NN CC JJ NN . DT NN , RB RB JJ TO VB DT $ CD CD , VBD DT NNS VBP JJ , VBN IN JJ NN . PRP VBD JJ NNS IN JJ CC JJ NNS TO DT NN IN NN , CC VBD DT VBG NN IN DT JJ NN TO VB RB IN PRP$ NN IN VBG NNS VBP RP VBG NNS . 
POS . VB VBG . NNP . CD JJR . '' VBD RP IN DT JJ NN , DT NN IN DT NN , NNP NNP , CD , NNS . PRP$ NN CC JJ JJ NN , NNP NNP , RB VBZ NNP NNP IN IN PRP VBZ DT NNS CD JJ NN , IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN NN , IN VBG PRP TO DT NN IN DT JJ NN . NNP NNP VBZ RP JJS NNS IN NNP NNP , IN NNP POS NNP NNP , IN VBG NN IN PRP$ NN IN DT JJ NN . IN DT NN NN , PRP VBZ IN NN NNS IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . CC WP VBZ PRP VBP . IN CD NNS CD NNS CC CD NNS , NNP NNP VBZ DT JJ NN , JJ NNS CC NNS IN NNS . CC PRP VBZ VBN NN . IN DT JJ CD NNS , NNP NNP VBZ VBN VBG DT JJ JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NN NN . PRP VBZ IN $ CD DT NN IN DT JJ NN , WDT PRP VBZ IN JJ NNS . 
IN NN JJ NNS IN DT NNP , PRP VBP WP PRP MD VB VBN IN VBZ DT NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , WP VBD NNP NNP VB DT NN . NNP NNP VBD NN IN NNP IN NNP , WDT VBZ JJ NN TO NNS IN NNP , CC PRP VBD IN NNP CC VBD PRP$ JJ NN IN NNP . NNP NNP . PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN CD . NNP NNS VBP RB RB VBN IN DT NN POS JJ NN , RB IN PRP VBP VBN IN DT NN POS JJ NNS . CC NNP NNP , IN VBG IN DT NN , VBD VBN IN NNS IN IN JJ NNS NN NNS VBN , VBG IN VBZ DT JJ NN VBZ VB PRP . PRP RB VBD IN NN WDT VBD VBN IN NN MD VB IN CD CC CD NNS , RB IN DT NN IN DT NN NN CC DT NN IN DT NN , JJ NNS WDT MD VB DT NN NN . 
EX VBP JJ NNS TO DT NN , CC DT NNS VBP TO VB RP , '' NNP NNP , DT NN VBG IN DT NN IN DT JJ NNP NN , VBZ VBD . CC VBZ DT NN NN , CC NN , VBZ VBG . '' RB DT NN NNS VBP RB , CC VBD NNS , PRP MD VB VBD , MD RB VB DT NNS IN NNS IN NN IN NNS . CC RB , DT NN NN WDT VBZ IN NN NN ( POS NN NNS RB VBD CC VBD IN CD DT POS NNS IN DT NN NN '' ) CC RB NNS PRP$ JJ NN IN NNP POS NN NN , VBZ DT JJ JJ NN VBP IN RB JJR JJ . DT NN IN JJ NN VBZ JJ VBG RB RB RBR RB JJ , CC RBR RB JJ . IN NNP , DT NNP NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD : IN NN : VBD DT NN WDT MD VB JJ VBG . PRP VBZ JJ IN JJ JJ NNS WDT RB VBD RB JJ : IN JJ NN , IN CD : VBP VBN VBN RBR CC JJR RB IN DT NN IN JJ NN . CC JJ NN VBZ JJ . PRP MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS IN NN NNS . CC PRP MD VB DT JJ NN IN JJ NN : WP MD VB IN DT NN VBN IN : RB VBN TO VB : DT RB VBN NN MD VB RP VBN IN NNS POS NNP NNS IN WRB DT NNS MD VB . '' VBZ JJ TO VB , '' VBD NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , DT NNS WP VBD PRP NNP , '' NN , NN , DT NN IN JJ NN CC DT RB JJ NN IN NN RB VBP JJ JJ NNS IN VBG DT NN IN DT NN . '' 
IN NN , VBD , NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNS POS NN , JJ NNS VBP IN NN IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN CC DT NN PRP VBP RB VBZ IN NN . CD NN IN JJ NN IN DT NN NNS VBP VBN VBN , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN IN JJ JJ NNS IN NNP . IN PRP VBP DT NN IN JJR NN IN DT NN . '' NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN IN NNP IN NNP CD IN JJ NN NNS IN JJ NN NN VBD NN NNS POS NNS . PRP VBP VBD IN JJ NN VBZ RB VB IN JJ NNS VBP JJ CC JJ : DT NNS VBP RB VBD DT NNS VBP JJ . 
JJ NNS VBP VBN VBN TO VB NNS CC DT NNP IN NNP IN PRP WDT VBP RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT JJ NN . PRP$ NN VBZ VBN IN NNS IN PRP$ NNS IN DT NN , WP VBP VBN TO PRP$ NN IN NNS . NNS IN DT NNP NNP NN VBP VBG NNP NNP POS NN , CC VBP VBN DT NNP NNP NNP IN VBG NN IN VBG DT JJ NN . NNP NN NNS VBP , RB , IN PRP$ NN VBZ VBN JJ NNS CC VBZ VBN NNS TO VB IN DT NN POS NNS VBP IN NN . RB , NNP NNP POS NN VBZ CD IN DT JJS NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP POS NN TO VB NNS IN VBG NNS IN DT NN WRB NNP NNP VBZ VBG RBR JJ NN IN JJ NNS . DT NN POS JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN WP VBZ RB VBN VBN IN DT NN , JJ JJ NN IN DT VBP NNS RB IN DT JJ NN . CC PRP$ NN IN NNP NNP VBZ VBN NNS CC JJ NNS TO VB IN DT NN NN NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBZ IN DT NN WDT MD VB VBN DT JJ NNS RB VBG NN IN DT NNP NNP NN . 
CC NN TO VB NNS VBZ JJ CC JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT JJ NNS POS NN RB , IN DT NN VBN NNP IN DT NN NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ JJ JJ NNS . VB DT JJ NN DT NN IN NN NN CC NN IN PRP MD VB RP IN DT NN . '' NNP NNP NNS IN NNP NNP VBP RB VBN NNP NNP POS NN CC VBP VBG JJ NN NN NN VBN IN JJ NN NN , WDT VBZ RB VB DT NN IN JJ NN , IN NNP NNP POS NN VBZ . DT NN VBZ VBN TO VB VBG PRP$ NN , RB . IN NNP IN DT NN , CD NNS VBD PRP VBD PRP$ NN TO VB TO VB RB . '' VBZ DT JJ NN TO PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP . CD NN IN NNP NNP POS NN . '' VBZ DT JJ NN IN PRP TO VB TO VB CC VB PRP$ NN RB IN TO JJ NNS . PRP VBP DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBP IN WP PRP VBP VBZ VBG DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN . '' 
IN NN , PRP VBD , DT JJ NN VBD IN NN NN NNS VBD VBG JJ NN NNS TO VB NNS , IN PRP MD , CC RB TO CD NN VBD VBG DT JJ NN , RB CD RB JJ . CC RB IN DT NN VBD RB RB , RB JJ IN NN IN DT NNS VB RB WP NNP NNP VBD IN PRP$ JJ NN NN . PRP VBD VBG JJ CC DT IN PRP$ NNS . VB PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN . CC NN VBD RB VB TO DT JJ NN CC DT JJ NN VBD RB VB TO VB DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD PRP VB TO NNS , PRP VBP : CD CD VBN TO PRP DT NN IN VBG IN DT NNS JJ NN . PRP VBD PRP MD RB VB PRP IN CD NNS , PRP VBD PRP MD VB IN DT JJ . PRP VBD PRP VBD IN DT NN RB WRB VBP PRP VBP DT NN . '' '' 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP WP VBZ VBN NNP NNP IN CD , VBD PRP$ NN VBD VBN JJ DT NN IN DT '' TO VB . PRP VBZ DT NN MD , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' IN PRP MD VB RB VBN RP . '' NN NNP NNP : NNP NNP 
NNP VBZ DT VBG NN IN NN IN JJ NNS , CC IN DT JJ NN , DT NN IN NN IN NNS VBZ VBN . IN DT JJ NN , NNS IN NNP NNP VBP IN DT NN MD VB VBN IN NN TO DT VBG NN IN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . DT NNS VBD JJ JJ NNS CC NNS VBN IN NNS NNS CD TO CD IN CD NNS IN DT NN IN CD TO CD . NNS IN JJR NNS IN JJ NN IN CD CC CD VBD JJR JJ NNS . CC IN NN , DT NN IN DT NN IN NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN IN NNS . DT NN NN IN DT NNS CC NN VBD IN NNS , JJR NNS CC JJ NNS CC RB IN NNS CC JJR NNS . NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN WDT IN DT JJ NNS RB VBZ VBN DT NN IN DT NN IN NNS '' IN NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNP CC DT JJ NN IN DT NN , VBN DT NN IN DT NNS IN NNP NNP . CC NN PRP VBP VBG TO VB IN RB VBZ , '' WDT VBD TO DT NN IN NN . '' DT VBZ DT NN IN PRP MD VB . '' 
NNP NNP RB VBZ IN DT NN IN DT NN , '' DT NN CC DT NN , '' CC PRP$ NN VBZ IN IN NNS . IN PRP VBZ RB VBN NN IN PRP$ JJ NN : CC VBD RB EX JJ NN , CC PRP$ NNS VBD RB JJ IN NNS '' : PRP$ NN VBZ RB IN NNP NNP . IN DT NN NN VBP JJ IN PRP$ NNS , VBG DT JJ NN VBD IN NN CC DT IN NN . IN PRP$ NN , DT NN IN NNP NNP VBZ DT JJ NN . PRP VBZ RB RB RB IN NN IN PRP MD VB RB , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBP VBN PRP IN PRP$ JJ NN . CC VBD NNP , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' PRP$ NN VBD PRP$ JJ NN NN DT NN RB . PRP VBP RB VBN TO DT NNP NNP CC NNP IN CD NNP , CC TO DT NNP CC NNP NN NN RB . PRP VBP VBN DT NNP NNP NNP , CC IN NN PRP VBD NN . '' 
VBG NNS IN NNS TO VB NNS , JJ NN NNS CC NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP VBD NN IN NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN IN NN IN NNS . DT NN RB NN IN NN IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN CC NNS IN JJ NN . PRP VBZ VBN VBG IN JJR IN DT NN , VBG NNS IN DT NN , CC IN DT NN JJ NNS IN NNS VBG NNS VBP VBN . JJ NNS VBP VBN NNS IN JJ JJ NNS , VBG NNS IN NNS NNS . NNP NNS VBG NN NN VBD VBN IN DT NN VBD . IN VBG NN IN NNS VBG DT NNP NNPS IN NNP CC DT NNP CC NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNS NN , VBD : NN NN PRP VBP VBN RB CC RB VBZ IN , RB DT NN VBZ VBN , EX VBZ DT NN TO VB WP VBZ VBG IN IN DT NNS . PRP VBP EX VBZ DT VBG NN IN NN MD VB VBN . '' 
IN RB JJ NN NN NNS VBP VBN VBN TO VB NN NN , DT JJ NN NNS MD VB DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ RB RB VBN VBN IN JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD . DT JJ NN VBZ $ CD TO $ CD , IN DT NN VBZ $ CD TO $ CD , DT NN , $ CD TO $ CD , CC DT NN NN , $ CD TO $ CD . IN DT JJ NN VBZ JJ , PRP MD VB VBN DT NN IN PRP MD VB NNS CC NNS . DT JJ NNS MD VB VBN RBR RB IN PRP VBP RBR JJ TO VB JJ CC NNS . CC DT NNS VBP NN NNS CC DT NN . NNP NNP CC NNS VBD IN NNS MD VB NNS JJR IN CD TO VB VBN VBG IN JJS CD IN DT NN '' PRP VBP DT NN TO RB VB DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . WP VBZ RB JJ . '' 
IN DT NN NN VBZ DT JJ NNP NNP , PRP MD VB DT JJ NN , CD WDT MD VB PRP JJ JJR CC VB PRP$ JJ NN . DT NN MD VB JJ , IN NN . DT NN VBZ DT TO VB PRP VBN IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP , NNS MD VB TO VB DT NN TO VB IN PRP VBZ . TO VB PRP VBD JJ CC JJ , DT NN MD VB TO VB PRP TO NNS CC RB VB TO VB IN PRP VBD JJR IN DT NN NN WDT VBD RB VB DT NN . DT NNS MD VB TO VB NNS , IN WDT NN PRP$ NN NN NNS : CD NNS , IN JJ NN : MD VB RB VBN . DT NN MD VB DT NNS IN NN CC NN , CC DT JJ NN NN MD VB DT NNS . PRP VBZ DT NN IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP CC DT NN IN NNP NNP , WDT , VBG TO PRP$ NNP NN , VBZ NNS IN JJ NN , PDT DT NN CC NN IN JJ NN , CC VBP NN POS RBS JJ NN . '' 
NNP VBZ DT JJ NN , VBG IN DT NN IN PRP$ NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT NN . DT JJ NN MD RB VB PRP$ NN . PRP MD VB PRP$ NN IN NN , CC RB VB PRP IN PRP VBP PRP . PRP$ NN IN NN NN VBD CD NNS RB , IN DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN NN VBD JJ . DT NN VBZ JJR NN : NN IN PRP VBD RB VB PRP$ NN MD VB VBN DT IN DT NN IN PRP VBD . NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN NNP , VBZ DT NN , RBS RB , IN JJ NNS : NNS IN NNP CC NNP IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP . '' 
DT IN DT NNS TO DT JJ NN : DT NN . IN DT NN NN , PRP RB VBZ DT JJ WP MD '' VBZ IN IN DT NN . CD VBZ PRP VB VBG IN DT NN . '' PRP VBZ . '' MD PRP VB DT NN . '' PRP VBZ TO VB RB NN NNS ( RB RB JJ ) CC DT NN CC NN IN DT JJ NN ( PRP VBZ RB , IN JJ NN ) . PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN RB DT RB NN PRP VBD PRP JJ NN NN . IN DT VBZ DT NN VBN RB IN JJ NN : IN DT NN DT NN VBZ PRP VBZ JJ TO RB CD NNS : NNS TO PRP$ RB IN JJ , IN RB JJR IN , DT NN IN PRP VBZ PRP TO VB DT JJ NN . NN VBZ PRP$ . JJ '' VBZ DT NN PRP VBZ , CC PRP NNS WRB PRP VBZ PRP . EX MD VB DT NN IN PRP$ : IN DT VBZ CD IN DT JJ NNS ( IN CD NN , VBG TO DT JJS JJ NNS IN NN ) WRB NN IN NN VBZ RB VB CC VB NN IN NN , DT RBS JJ NN IN NN RB , NNS JJ IN DT . CC EX MD VB DT NN TO DT NN , WRB NN VBG PRP$ NN CC NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN RB . UH NNS TO VB , DT CD VBG CD NN . '' DT NN PRP VBZ VBG NN VBZ VBN JJ IN DT JJ NN NN IN NNP , WRB PRP VBZ . NNS IN NNS VBP CC VBP RB DT NN IN NN IN NNS TO VB NNS TO NNS IN JJ NNS . CC DT NN DT JJ NN NNS VBZ RB RB DT NN . PRP VBZ DT NN WP VBD DT NN IN JJ NN IN VBG JJ NNS CC WP VBZ RB VBN VBG NN IN NN . WRB MD RB DT RBS JJ JJ NN NN RP WP TO VB . 
WRB NNP VBD DT NN CD NNS RB IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN DT JJ NN NNP , DT NN VBD TO VB DT JJ NN : RB VBG DT NNS IN PRP$ JJ NNS IN NNP CC JJ NNS . DT NN , WDT VBD VBN IN DT NN IN VBG TO VB DT JJ NNS IN NNP , RB RB DT JJ NNS , VBD JJ IN PRP$ NN . DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NNP NN VBD IN CD NNS VBG PRP$ JJ NNS NN , NNP . DT NN , NNP VBD WP IN JJR NN MD VB . DT NN IN DT NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN DT NNP NNP NN IN VBG NNP JJ NNP . PRP CC DT JJ RB VBD DT NN , CC IN NNP , DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP VBD PRP$ NN IN NNP VBD DT JJ NN NN . CC VBD DT NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT NNP NN . 
DT JJ NNS CC DT NN NN POS NN NN , DT NNP NNP CC NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD JJ NN IN PRP MD RB VB IN PRP VBD RB VBN JJ NN NNS . CC CD NN IN DT NN NN VBD NNS IN NNS MD VB NN NN NNS CC JJ NNS IN NNS VBG TO NNS CC DT NN . IN DT NN , DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP IN NNS VBZ WRB JJ NNS MD RB VB NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN DT NN . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , WDT VBZ DT NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBD PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NN POS NNS TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT VBN NNS VBN IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN VBD RB RB JJ NNS CC NNS WDT VBP NNS IN JJ NNS . 
IN NN , NNP MD VB TO VB JJ JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD . DT NN WDT NNP CC DT JJ NN NNS NN VBZ VBN IN NN NNS DT IN DT NN , CC NNP VBZ RB VBG NNP IN DT NN IN JJ NN NN . CC MD VB DT JJ JJR NN IN RB IN JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . 
NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NN NN CC JJ NN IN NNS IN DT JJ JJ NN NNP , VBZ RB RB VBP DT JJ NNS WDT VBD PRP$ JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ VBG PRP IN DT NN IN JJ NN . IN NN CD , PRP VBD PRP MD VB JJ TO NN NN , RB IN PRP$ NN NN VBD JJ . PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN : PRP$ NN , NN CC NN VBD VBN NN NNS , IN PRP RB VBD JJ NN NNS . RB , TO VB PRP$ NN IN JJ NN , PRP VBD NN NNS . CD VBD IN DT JJS NN IN PRP$ NN , '' NNP . NNP VBD . IN PRP VBD DT NN NN . '' RB , VBN IN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS , NNP . NNP VBZ VBG NN WDT VBZ IN JJ NNS WDT VBP NNS TO NN NNS IN DT JJ NN , NNS WP , IN PRP , VBP JJ NN NNS . PRP RB VBZ DT RB PRP VBZ DT JJ NNS IN DT NN , PRP$ NN MD VB NNS TO VB NNS CC PRP . '' VBP DT NN WDT VBZ VBG TO VB , '' NNP . NNP VBD . 
EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN IN NN IN JJR CC JJR NNS IN RB JJ JJ NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD WRB PRP VBP VBG NN NN , NN , NN NNS , NNS , NN , CC RB NN IN JJR NNS , RB DT MD VB DT JJ NN IN NN NN . '' NN NNS VBP RB JJ CC RB VBN , IN NNS IN NNS IN NNP NNP , NN NNS , NN NN CC NN NN NNS . DT NNS CC NN NNS VBP IN DT NNS POS NN VBZ JJ . UH , PRP VBZ RB JJ IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NNS MD VB IN NN VBZ IN DT NN , CC PRP RB VBP TO VB IN DT JJ NNS MD VB JJR IN VBG DT IN DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP . RB VBG DT VBZ VBG TO VB RP VBG JJR , CC PRP MD RB VB RP VBG NNS CC NNS RP NN . '' 
DT NN NNS : CC , IN PRP VBP , DT NN NNS : VB PRP$ NN IN NN IN VBG IN NNP POS JJ NN VBZ DT NN . EX VBD JJ NN IN DT NN WRB DT JJ NN , VBG NNS IN DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP , VBD TO VB DT JJ NN IN NN VBZ DT JJ JJ NN IN NN NN . CC IN NNS IN DT NNP . VB VBN RP , NN VBZ RB DT JJ NN IN NN . EX VBZ DT NN IN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS WDT VBP DT NN IN NN CC , RB , VBP JJ NN . DT VBG NN IN JJ NN RB VBZ WRB DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN JJ IN NNS IN DT CD POS VBZ VBN . CC DT NN IN VBG DT NN VBZ VBG TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN NN NN . IN WP MD PRP VB . DT JJ NN VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN IN VBG NN IN DT JJ NN PRP VBZ . NNP , NN VBZ VBG IN NN NNPS VB VBN IN VBG WDT PRP VBP . DT NN VBZ IN JJ NNS MD VB DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS TO VB NNS IN DT NN IN VBG NN WDT VBZ JJ IN PRP . 
IN DT NN IN NNP NNP POS NN , NNP NNP NNP CC NNS IN NNP NNP NNP MD VB DT NN IN CD NNS , IN NN IN NNP . PRP MD VB NN NN TO NNP NNP IN DT NN IN NN CC VB DT NNS TO VB IN DT JJ NNS VBP DT NN POS NN . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD TO VB DT NN TO JJ JJ NNS . JJS NNS VBD JJ IN DT JJ NN IN NN NN CC NN VBD JJ . JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD , VBD DT NN WDT VBZ VBG TO VB NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS . '' DT JJ NN , PRP VBD , VBZ DT JJ . CC VBZ VBG . PRP VBZ JJ NN . '' 
NNP NNS VBP RB RB , CC DT NN POS NN VBZ DT JJ JJ . CC PRP$ JJ NN VBZ DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS IN DT NN , WDT VBP VBN RP , IN JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NN , DT NN PRP$ NN VBZ TO DT JJ NN NN . RB RB , DT NN VBZ RB VBG DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN NN VBZ RB VBN . VB DT VBZ WRB DT JJ NN : PRP MD VB DT NN , CC MD RB VB DT NN : NNS VBN IN CD NNS IN NN RB , CD IN DT JJ NN , DT JJ IN DT JJ NN . IN DT NN , DT CD NN NNS IN DT CD NNS VBP VBN RB IN JJ NNS , IN DT NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN NN . IN CD IN DT NNS VBZ TO VB DT JJ CC JJ IN JJ TO JJ , NN : DT JJ NNS . DT CD CC CD NNS DT RB VBD IN DT NN IN NN . '' IN DT JJ NN , JJS NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN NN VBD DT RB RBR JJ CD NN IN RB . 
IN PRP$ NN NNS , NNP VBZ VBN DT NN POS NNS IN JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD . NNP NN , IN NN , VBZ VBN NNS RB TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ IN DT NN IN DT NN POS JJ NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN : DT NN WDT VBZ VBG TO JJ NN . NNP VBZ VBN DT NN TO NN . IN NNP NNP VBZ IN NN VBZ VBN NNS , PRP VBD PRP VBD RB VBN VB DT NN DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NNS POS NNS . NNS VBD TO VB JJ , '' PRP VBD , '' RB PRP VBP RB JJ . '' VBZ PRP$ NN IN CD IN NNP NNP CC PRP$ NN , NNP NNP , IN NNP , NNP VBZ VBD DT NN IN VBG NNS TO VB JJR NN . PRP VBD PRP$ JJ NN WRB PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS , VBD PRP IN JJ NN CC VBD PRP IN DT NN NN . 
IN JJ NNS IN RB , IN DT NN NNS JJ NN , PRP MD VB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD IN JJ NNS VB PRP$ NN IN NN VBZ JJ TO NN VBG NN . CC , PRP VBD , '' VBP RB VB DT NNP NN CC DT NNP NNS MD VB TO VB PRP$ NNP . CD NN IN DT NN . '' 
DT JJ NN , VB PRP RP : VB DT NNP IN NNP TO VB NNP RB , '' RB VBZ DT NNS IN JJ NN , NN , NNP , NNP NNP CC DT JJ JJ CC VBZ RB TO DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NNS . DT NN POS JJ NN VBZ IN DT JJ NNS , RB RB IN PRP MD VB IN PRP . NNP . DT NN POS NN , NNP NNP NNP , NNP , DT NN WP VBZ DT NN TO DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NN NN NN , VBZ IN JJ NN MD VB IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS CC NNP JJ NNS . IN EX PRP VBD , NNP CD , PRP$ NN IN CD NN , DT NN NN IN DT JJ . DT JJ NN IN PRP VBD IN IN DT NN , PRP VBP RB VB VBG RB . IN NN , PRP VBP RB VB VBG RB . PRP RB VBP TO VB PRP IN VBG RB . 
DT NN , VBD NN NN , VBZ VBG IN CD NN JJR NNS IN JJ IN RB VBG JJ NNS IN NNS , NNS CC JJ NNS . RB IN JJ JJ NN , JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN VBN TO VB NN RB IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . WRB DT JJ JJ VBZ DT NN VBZ VBN DT NN IN JJ NN . RB , DT NN VBZ VBN TO VB NN , VBG DT JJ NN IN NNS VBG IN DT NN IN VBG VBZ NN , RB VBN , CC IN PRP MD VB VBN . IN DT JJ NN , JJ NNS VBP VBN VBN IN JJ NNS TO VB JJ NNS JJ TO VB VBN IN DT NN IN NNP POS NN , VBZ , NN NN , NNP POS NN CC NN . RBR DT NN , NNS VBG JJ NNS IN NNS VBD RB RB IN TO VB IN JJ NN MD VB RBR JJ IN NN IN VBG JJ NNS . 
PRP VBZ DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBD PRP VBD PRP MD RB VB RB IN DT JJ NN . DT , RB , VBZ JJ . JJR IN NN IN DT NNS VBG NNS VBP VBN NNS , DT NN WDT VBD IN DT CD POS CC VBZ RB VBN IN CD , VBG TO DT JJ NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP . NNP CC PRP$ NN VBP DT JJ NN VBN IN NN NNS , CC PRP VBD IN DT NN IN VBG VBN IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBD RB VBN IN RBR IN DT NN , PRP VBD , IN PRP VBD RB VB DT NN . IN DT NN , IN PRP VBD RB RB RB , PRP NN VBD CD NNS CC VB $ CD , RB CD NNS WP PRP MD VB NN IN PRP VBD VBN IN IN CD NNS . '' VBP PRP PRP MD VB PRP$ NN RP IN NN , '' PRP VBD . VB IN PRP$ NN VBZ JJ NNS , DT NN VBZ TO VB PRP . CC PRP RB VBP . '' 
NNS VBP EX VBZ RB VBN IN JJR NNS IN NN NNP CC NNP CC NNP . IN VBG NNS VBP RB RB NN CC MD VB JJ NN NNS . JJR NNS VBP RB VBN IN JJ NNS , VBG JJ JJ NN , WDT VBZ IN CD NNS DT NN , CC JJ NN , WDT VBZ JJ NN . IN IN DT JJ NN , IN EX VBP JJ NNS IN NNS IN NNS CC VB RB , DT NNS RB VBP DT NN . NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN IN NNS , VBG PRP JJ IN DT JJ NN TO VB IN DT IN PRP . RB IN DT NN MD VB VBN IN NNS IN NNS IN DT JJ NN , DT JJ NN MD VB TO VB RB JJ IN PRP$ NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS . NNP NNS VBD TO NN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN VBN IN NNP WDT MD VB DT NN POS NN IN CD NNS TO CD . 
NNP NNP NNS DT NNS , WDT VBP TO VB DT JJ NNS WDT VBP DT NNS . IN DT JJ CD NNS , DT NN VBZ VBN CD JJ NNS RB RB VBN IN DT NN , RB RB IN NNS IN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS WDT VBD RB VBN IN NNS . DT NNS VBP VBN IN TO JJ NNS WP VBP VBN JJ JJ NN CC JJ NN . JJR IN CD NNS VBD TO VB NNS IN DT JJ NN , IN NNS VBD IN DT NNS JJ NNS WDT RB VBP IN DT JJ JJ NNS IN NN . CC EX VBP NNS . IN DT JJ , JJ NN IN WDT NNS VBP JJ TO VB , EX VBZ DT NN IN VBG NNS CC PRP$ NNS , RB VBG PRP$ NNS IN NN MD NN VB RP IN DT JJ NN VBZ IN DT NN . DT NNS VBP TO VB IN NN IN VBG NNS RB IN PRP$ NN NNS CC VBG PRP VB NN , RB IN PRP$ JJ NNS . JJ JJ NN VBZ VBN IN CC IN VBG . NNS VBP VBN RB IN NN IN JJ NNS WP VBP NNS CC NNS IN DT NN CC NNS IN DT NN . 
POS NN VBZ IN RB RB , PRP VBP RB VB , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT VBZ WRB DT NNP NNPS IN NNP VBZ VBG PRP$ NN . 
JJ NNS IN VBG IN NN NN CC NN NN VBP VBG IN NN . JJ NNS VBP VBN IN DT NNS : VBG NNS , IN NNS CC NN NNS IN JJ NN , CC NNP . : VB JJ TO VB NN NNS . CC DT JJ NNS VBP TO VB DT NNS , DT RBS JJ NNS IN NN IN NNS CC NNS . NNS CC PRP$ NNS VBP VBN VBN TO VB PRP$ JJ NNS . IN NNS , IN NN CC NN VBD VBN DT JJ NN IN NN IN NN NN , WDT VBZ RB CD NNS DT NN . CC IN NNP , NNS VBD DT NNS IN DT JJ NN IN NNP , WDT VBD IN NNS WP VBD VB NN VBD JJR NNS CC VBD JJR NNS IN JJ NNS , CC PRP VBD RB VB JJ NNS DT JJR IN NNS WP VBD RB VB PRP . IN IN NN , JJ NNS WP VBD CD JJ NNS IN NN DT NN RB VBD DT NN VBD CC VBD IN DT JJ NN NN VBD JJ IN VBG NNS CC VBG NNS . 
IN DT JJ NN IN NNP , NNP , DT NNS VBP IN NN NN , '' IN JJ NNP NNPS NNP . '' IN CD NN IN NNP POS NN NN VBZ JJ NNS IN NNS IN NNP VBZ RB VBG . DT NNS , VBN IN NNP CD , VBP JJ IN DT NN CC VBP VBN IN DT NNP . VBZ DT NN . VBN IN VBG DT NNS IN VBG NNS , NNP CD NNS VBP TO VB IN DT NN POS NNS MD VB VBN IN NNS VBG IN JJ NNS CC IN PRP VBP JJR IN NNS POS NNS . IN NN , PRP VBP TO VB DT NNS IN NNP POS NNS NNS MD VB IN DT NNS . PRP MD RB VB DT NN IN DT NN IN PRP VBP VBN PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP POS JJ NN CC NN NN . IN DT NN , NNP VBZ RB VBG RB TO VB PRP$ NNS . PRP VBZ RB VBN JJ NNS WDT VBP VBG JJ NNS , VBG TO VB NNP VB VB PRP . IN NN , IN DT CD NNS IN NNP POS NN IN DT NN VBZ MD VB JJ NNS , CD VBD VBN IN JJ NNS . IN DT JJ NN , NNP CC NN : NNP , DT NNS , VBD NNP MD '' IN VBG DT NNS . RB , DT JJ WDT VBD NNP VBD VBN IN NNP , DT NN IN NNP , NNP . NNP POS NNS VBD IN NNP POS NN IN CD IN DT NN IN NNS IN DT NNP NNPS NNP NNP . DT NNS RB VBD DT NN NN . 
CC NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN NN WDT VBZ TO VB VBN . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBD PRP VBD TO VB VBN IN NNS IN VBD CC VBD IN NN NNS WRB PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN MD VB CC VB IN NN NNS WRB PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN . CC NN IN NN VBZ VBG TO VB RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ NN IN DT NNP POS NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBD IN IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN IN VBG NN NNS IN NN NN , PRP VBD IN DT JJ NNS MD VB JJ RB TO VB DT NN IN NNP POS . IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , NNS VBP RB RB JJ NNS CC NN NNS WDT MD VB DT NN NN NN . PRP RB VBP NNS WDT MD VB NN NNS CC RB VB TO VB NNS CC NN NNS , PRP VBD . CC , PRP VBD , PRP VBZ JJ IN DT JJ NNS RB VB NN . CC DT NNS VBP RB JJ NN , PRP MD VB DT NN IN JJ , '' PRP VBD . MD VB PRP VB JJ IN PRP VBP DT NN NN . '' 
DT NN VBZ IN RB DT NNS VBN IN NNS IN DT NNP NN VBP JJ TO VB VBN TO DT NN WDT VBD DT NN IN DT JJR NN . DT JJ NNS MD VB NN RB IN DT JJ NNS . DT NNP NNPS VBZ RB JJ IN DT NN : DT NNS MD VB VBN DT JJ NN , CC DT NNPS IN NNP NNP VBD RB JJ NN NNS RB . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNP , DT NN VBN TO JJ NN , VBD IN IN DT JJ NNS VBN IN DT NNP . NN VBD JJ , NNS IN JJ NNS : WDT RB VBP RB VBN VBN : VBP JJ TO VB VBN RB IN DT NNS . EX VBP NNS IN DT JJ NN NNS WP VBP RB VBN , '' NNP NNP VBD . EX VBZ DT NN IN NN , CC EX VBZ DT JJ NN NN , CC DT NN VBZ RB VBG RP TO PRP . '' 
IN NNS IN CD , PRP VBD , FW NN MD VB JJ NN NN CC RB VB PRP . '' DT JJ NN IN PRP MD VB DT NN NN NN TO VB IN DT JJ NNS VBP VBN TO DT NN WRB NN NN VBZ VBN . DT JJ NN NN , PRP VBD , MD VB DT NN IN NN CC NN NN . DT NN NN VBD NN NNS TO VB DT JJR NN IN JJ NNS IN VBG IN JJ NN NNS IN NN NN CC NN . CC JJ NN NNS VBP DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBP TO VB JJR , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP CC DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NN . PRP VBZ NNS VBG IN IN TO NN IN DT IN NN NN VBP NN IN DT JJ NN NNS , CC NNS IN NN NNS VBD VBN IN NNS VBG NNS IN NNS CC RB VBD JJR NN IN NNS IN IN JJ NNS . 
NNS IN DT NN , VBN IN NN NN , CC NNP , NN PRP VBP RB VBG TO VB JJ CC RB TO VB DT JJ NN . NNP JJ RB , PRP VBP , CC PRP MD VB TO VB JJ , RB TO VB VB DT NN IN NN , VBZ , NN NN CC NN NN . NN VBZ DT NN CC PRP VBZ VBD TO VB RB RB , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP , NNP , CC DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ IN CD JJ NNS VBP . NNS VBP VBG NNS , VBG NN NNS CC VBG NNP , CC NN IN DT VBZ VBG , '' PRP VBD . VB DT NN , NNP . VBZ DT JJ NN PRP VBP TO VB RB RBR . '' PRP VBZ JJ VBG IN NNP NNP VBZ CD NNS JJ , VBZ RB CD NNS CC VBZ RB RB JJ . IN DT NN VBN IN NN , IN WDT VBP RB VBP DT NN TO VB DT VBG NNS IN NNS : DT NNP NN , DT NNP NNP NN : DT NNP . NN , IN PRP$ NN NN , MD RB RB VBP JJ NN . CC DT NN IN DT NN VBZ VB TO VB DT JJ NN , RB RB IN IN JJ NN , DT NNP POS NNP IN NNP VBD DT NN RB VBG JJ NN , CC VBG , '' NN IN DT NN NN MD VB RB TO VB DT NN CC DT NN . '' 
NNS VBP RB JJ , CC DT NN WDT VBZ RB VBN NNS IN NN TO NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . VB DT NN VBZ PRP PRP$ NN NN VBZ CD NN CC JJR , RB DT VBZ DT JJ NN IN PRP VBZ VBG RB . IN PRP VBZ JJR IN DT , PRP VBZ DT NN IN IN NN VBZ RB JJ IN DT NN POS NN CC IN PRP CC PRP VBZ RB VBG RB RB . '' IN VBG JJ TO VB JJ , NNS MD RB VB JJ TO VB PRP . IN DT NNS , RB JJ NNS , MD VB DT NN IN JJ NNS CC NN , IN JJS NNS DT NN VBG DT NN MD VB WRB TO VB PRP RP . NNS WP VBP RB VBN TO VB DT NN MD RB VB VBN TO VB DT NN CC VB PRP RB CC RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN IN NN CC NN IN NN IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP IN NNP . VB DT NN CC NN , PRP VBP PRP VBP RB VB NNS WP VBP RB VBG CC RB VBG NNS TO NN RB TO VB RP DT NNS . '' 
DT NN NNS MD VB JJR JJ IN PRP$ NN IN JJ NN NNS . DT JJ NN NN , IN NN , MD VB JJ TO VB IN NN NNS , CC RB IN NN CC NN NNS . CD NN IN NN NN NN VBZ RB VBG VBN TO VB NNS . NNP NN NNS VBP RB NNS IN JJ NN NNS , WDT VBP NN TO DT JJ NNS IN NN NNS CC VB DT NN NN . RB , JJ NNS VBP IN NN NN NNS MD VB RB JJ IN JJ NNS . NNP NN NNS VBP RB JJ , CC RB TO VB CC VB . PRP MD RB VB IN DT NNS . RB , NNS VBP RB RB VBN RP WRB TO VB JJ NNS IN NN NN NNS IN NN . RB , DT NN NN NNS VBP JJ IN JJ NNS . NN IN JJ NNS , WDT VBZ JJ IN JJ JJ NN NNS , VBZ RB VBG VBN CC VBN IN NNS WP VBP NN NN NNS . NNP MD RB VB NN NNS : NNP NNPS IN NNP , NNP , VBZ PRP MD VB JJ NNS IN JJ VBN IN NN . DT NNS MD VB IN JJ , NN CC NN CC RB IN JJ NNS , DT NN VBZ . 
RB WRB PRP VBZ TO VB , DT NN VBZ IN NNS VBP RB JJR IN VBG NN . IN RBS , DT NN MD VB DT NN DT JJ NN IN PRP VBZ RB JJ , CC IN DT RB JJ NN , PRP VBZ JJ IN RBR NNS IN CD TO VB PRP DT NN NN . VB 
RB , DT JJ NN VBZ , IN DT NN , DT JJ NN , PRP VBD . DT JJ NNS IN DT NN IN JJ NN , PRP VBD , VBP : NNS PRP VBP NN IN NNS IN WRB PRP NN JJ NNS . WP VBP NNS VB DT NN VBZ JJ . CC WP VBP PRP VB . '' NN 
NNP NNP VBD IN IN DT NN IN DT NN VBD JJ , JJ VBP PRP VBP DT JJR IN JJ NN IN VBG PRP IN . '' 
NN NNS VBP JJR NN , RB RB , WRB JJ NNS VBP JJ . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNP NNP , DT JJ NN VBN IN NNP , NNP , VBD JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , NN CC JJ NN VBD JJR IN DT NN IN NN IN DT NN NN . DT NNS VBD RB VBN TO VB NN . RB , NNP NNP VBZ NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS IN DT RBS JJ NN IN DT NN NN CC NN IN . JJ NNS VBD RB VBN TO VB DT NN NN NN IN NNP . NNP NNP , JJ NN IN JJ NNS IN NNP NNP , VBD PRP VBD TO VB NN CC NN NN TO VB IN DT NN . IN DT NN IN VBN JJ NN , DT NN NN NNP NNP RB VBD DT JJ NN , NNP NNP NNP , VBN IN NNP , NNP , TO VB DT JJ NN NN IN CD NNP NNS WP VBD NN NNS . 
PRP VBP RB IN NN NN VBZ DT RB JJ NN WDT RB VBZ RB IN DT NN WRB DT NN NN VBZ JJ . NNS VBD IN JJ MD RB , IN NN , VB JJ . DT NN IN DT NN , RB RB DT NN WRB PRP VBZ VBN , VBZ VB DT NN POS NN . WP VBZ RB VBG IN DT JJ NN IN NN VBZ DT NN IN NNS TO VB IN WP DT NN NN . IN DT NN IN NNS IN NNS IN CD VBZ VBN JJ IN NNS , DT JJ NN NNS PRP$ NN RB IN CD . DT NNS IN DT NNP VBD VBN TO CD NNS , IN NNP CC IN NNP , NNP , WDT VBP IN DT RBS JJ IN NN . EX VBP NNS IN JJ NNS , CC NN MD VB . WP MD NNS CC PRP$ NNS VBP IN PRP VBP RBR JJ NNS . RB VBZ PRP$ JJ NN . IN NNS IN CD : DT IN WP NNS IN NN POS NN VBP JJS : PRP MD VB TO VB JJ NN , VBG DT NN IN NNS CC VBG PRP VB IN TO VB NN . IN NNS CD TO CD , PRP MD VB TO VB RB NN . EX VBZ RB VBN RB JJ JJ NNS IN RB JJ TO VB DT NN RB . CC PRP MD RB VB RBR JJ TO VB IN NNS IN PRP$ NNS WP VBP PRP . IN DT NN , PRP MD VB JJ TO VB PRP$ JJS JJ NNS IN WRB PRP VBD NN NN . 
DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBD IN PRP IN PRP VBP DT JJ NNS , '' CC VBD TO VB . RB PRP VBD , VBN . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBG : NN MD RB VB WRB JJ PRP VBZ . PRP VBP NNS PRP VBP RB RB VB . '' WP VBZ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . VBG DT NN NNP VBZ IN DT NN MD VB IN JJ NN NNS , NNS WP VBP TO VB NNS CC NNS POS NNS IN NNS . NNP JJ NNS , CC DT NN NN IN WP PRP VBZ IN TO VB DT NN NN , VBP IN health . VBG DT JJ NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP NNP JJ NN IN NNP IN NNS POS NNS IN JJ NNS , VBD RB TO DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBD PRP$ NN VBD VBN . IN DT NN , DT NN , NN VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN , RB DT JJ NN . 
DT RBR JJ NN VBD VBN IN NNS IN NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP NNP NNP WP VBD DT NN NN JJ NN VBG DT NNS . CC IN DT NN IN NN , DT NN VBD RB JJ IN VBG NN . DT NNS VBD IN DT JJ NN WDT VBD IN DT JJ NN IN NNS IN DT JJ NN . RB , DT NN VBN NN IN NNS IN NNP NNP NNP VBD TO VB DT NN NNS . PRP VBZ IN NNS TO VB DT NN IN NN TO DT JJ NN VBP RB VBN IN NN IN VBG , IN NNS IN NN VBP VBN . IN DT NN , IN DT NN RB VBD , PRP VBZ JJ IN NNS WP VBP VBN VBG JJ NN NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS . CC DT JJ CC JJ NN IN DT NN VBZ JJ , CC PRP MD VB VBN IN DT NN WDT MD VB VBN IN PRP$ NN . DT RBS JJ NN TO VB NN MD VB DT NNP NNP NNP , WDT IN DT JJ NNS VBZ VBN NN IN DT NN NNS , CC RB DT NNP NNP IN NNPS , WDT VBZ RB VBN TO VB JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . 
CC NNS , WP IN JJ NN IN VBG MD RB VB JJ NNS , RB DT JJ , VBP JJ IN DT NN POS JJ NNS IN VBG JJ NNS IN NNS IN PRP$ CD POS CC CD POS . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD IN IN DT NNP . NN VBD IN JJ NN CD NNS RB POS NN IN DT NNS PRP VBD VBG MD RB VB VBN . '' VBZ NNS TO VB NN JJ IN NNP . NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , VBZ CD NN IN DT NNS VBD MD VB VBN . IN EX VBZ DT NN IN PRP VBP VBN DT NN TO DT NN RB JJ JJR IN NNS IN NN VBP NN IN NNS IN VBG DT NNS . '' EX VBP JJ NNS , RB . NNP NNP , DT NN , VBD RB IN DT JJ NN NN VBG NNS TO VB NNP POS NNP . '' NNP NNP VBD VBN JJ CC JJ NN IN NN NN IN NNP CD . PRP MD RB VB RB DT NN IN NNP . NN , '' NNP NNP VBZ VBN VBG IN DT NN . NNS MD VB CD IN IN CD NNS IN PRP VBP IN DT NN . '' 
NNS VBP PRP WRB PRP VBP PRP , CC RB PRP VBP . PRP VBP PRP DT NN RB . DT NN VBZ IN NN VBZ IN IN VBG , RB JJ IN JJ NN CC NNS . PRP VBZ DT NN TO VB VBN IN NN TO DT JJ NN . CC RB DT NNS VBP VBG DT NN . WRB , PRP VBP , MD VB VB JJ . CC WP , PRP VBP , VBZ VBN . VBP RB JJ NNS CC NNS WDT VBP DT NN . VBP RB JJ NNS . IN RB , MD VB VB VBN CC VBN IN VBG JJ NNS . DT NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , VBZ DT JJ NN TO DT JJ NN . NN , PRP VBD , VBZ RB RB VBN IN RB NN CC NN IN VBG JJ . RB , PRP VBD , PRP VBZ RB VBN IN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ NN . NNP NNP NN NNP , NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBZ DT VBG NN IN NN TO DT NN IN DT NN NNP POS NN VBD VBN . 
EX VBZ DT NN IN NN VBN IN WRB TO VB DT JJ NN , CC VBP PRP VB WRB TO VB DT JJ NN CC NN NN . IN : PRP VBP JJ EX VBZ DT NN IN NN IN DT NN VBG IN PRP MD VB NNP POS NN IN JJ NNS . IN VBG NN NNS . PRP$ NN VBZ VBN PRP DT PRP$ NN , CC PRP VBD PRP NN RB . NNP : RB IN NN VBZ DT NN IN JJ NN , NN : DT JJ CC JJ : MD VB DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNS IN VBG RB , VBG NNS CC VBG NNS . CC VBG DT JJ NN VBZ RB VB PRP IN VBG NN . RB , VBG DT JJ NN VBZ RB VB PRP IN VBG NN NN CC VBG NNP POS . NN : PRP$ NN VBZ RB JJ . PRP VBP PRP MD VB DT NNS DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS CC IN VBG NNS IN PRP VBP VBP JJ , IN NN , IN NNS NNS , IN JJ NN NN . VBZ PRP DT NN . RB RB , CC PRP VBP VBG DT NNS DT JJ NN RB IN NN . 
DT NNS VBP DT NN NNP , DT NNP NNP CC RB NNP . IN NNS PRP VBP IN PRP$ JJ NN TO VB RP NNS , IN DT VBP JJ IN PRP$ NN NNS , WDT MD VB NN CC JJ NNS . DT NNS VBP RB JJ NNS CC NN NNS , CC NNS IN NNS . CC DT NN IN PRP$ NNS VBZ RB DT JJ NN NN VBN IN JJ NN CC NNP , DT RB VBN NNS VBP , JJ RB IN NN , WP$ NN CC NNS VBP VBN IN PRP$ NN JJ NNP . IN NNS , DT NN NN VBN IN NNP VBZ IN DT JJ NN TO DT NN NN WDT RB VBZ NN CC JJ NNS NNS : DT JJ NNS MD RB VB DT NN . DT NNS VBP NNP VBZ VBN DT NN IN DT NN WDT MD VB TO JJ NNS IN NNS , NN CC NN NN CC RB NN . CC VBD IN NN TO NN : DT NN TO NNS IN NN , '' VBD DT NNP . NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP , NNP NNP NNP , CD NNS CD NNS JJ , VBZ PRP VBZ VBN RB CD NNS IN VBG NNP JJ NNP CC RB VBZ CD , PRP$ JJS NN IN NN . 
JJ NN , VBZ VBD DT JJ NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP , IN NN NN NNS VBD IN DT NN IN NNS WP VBP IN NNS VBZ RB JJ . NNS VBP RB VB DT NN VBZ RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN POS NN NN . CC NN VBZ PRP DT JJ NN IN DT NN CC NN IN JJ CC JJ IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . VB DT NNS NNP NNPS VBP , NNS CC NNP . VBP DT JJS NNS IN NN CC NN . '' IN DT NN , CD NN IN NNS VBP NNS , IN VBP CD NN IN JJ NNS . NNS WP VBP RB NNP VBP DT JJS NN : CD NN : CC NNPS VBP JJ TO JJ , IN CD NN . DT NNP VBZ DT NN IN NNS , IN CD NN IN NNS VBG DT NN , IN CD NN IN NNP NNP NNS VBP PRP . NNP NNP VBD DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . PRP VBZ VBN VBG JJ NNS DT NN IN PRP$ NN IN PRP VBD VBN JJ NN . 
IN NNP RB DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ JJ NN NN CC NN NN . NNP NNP NN TO VB IN DT JJ CD POS , IN CD JJ NN NNS VBD IN NN CC JJ NN NNS WP VBD PRP VBD DT NN IN IN TO CD JJ NNS IN DT NN DT NN VBD TO VB IN TO VB JJR NNS IN NN NN CC NN IN PRP$ NNS WP VBD RB VBG DT NN . DT NN IN NNPS , NNS VBD , WP VBD JJ NNS IN NN NNP RB VBD , IN RB JJ IN CD TO DT VBN CD CD IN CD , VBG TO DT NN VBN JJ NN IN DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP . CC IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS VBN IN DT JJ JJ NNS , NN NNP VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN JJ , JJ NN RB VBG PRP$ JJ NN . NNP , RB JJ NNS CC NN JJ NNS WP VBP PRP RB VBP JJ NNS IN DT NN IN PRP VBZ RB IN JJ NNS , NNS CC NN NNS VBP VBN TO VB DT NNS , IN IN NN IN NNS IN NNS IN JJ JJ NNS . 
CC TO VB RBR NNS : DT JJ NN IN JJ , JJ NN : IN NNP NNP POS NN NN RB VBG , NNP NNP VBZ VBN DT JJ NN , VBG DT NN NN NNS IN NN , VBN IN NNS IN NN NN CC NN NNS VBN IN NN , DT NN VBN TO VB NN NN . PRP VBD DT JJ NNS IN PDT DT NNS IN VBG TO DT JJ NN NNS VBG DT NN . CD , VBP RB , '' PRP VBD . EX VBP RB JJ NNS IN DT NN . '' RB RB , CC JJ IN PRP MD VB TO VBG JJ NNS , WDT VBP NN NN IN VBG JJ NNS . PRP VBP DT NN TO VB CC VB . NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP POS NNS NN VBZ NNS IN NNP NNP POS VBG NN , RB IN DT NNS . '' PRP VBD IN PRP CC PRP$ NN , NNP NNP NNP ( DT NN ) , VBP VBN RB TO VB JJ NN CC IN DT NN NN VBZ VBN VBG DT NN , RB VBG IN IN CD IN NN . 
POS MD VB RP IN DT NN CC VBP VBN NN CC NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP MD VB CD CC CD NN NNS CC NN NNS . PRP$ NN , NNP , WP VBZ VBN CD NNS , VBD RB RB JJ . CC NN NNS VBP RB JJ , '' PRP VBD . CC VBD DT NN WRB PRP VBD RB VBN . '' NNP NNP VBD TO VB PRP$ NN NN , PRP VBD , WRB PRP$ NN NN VBD TO VB . IN JJ PRP VBD DT NN NN , VBG RB RB CD NNS DT NN . CC JJ DT NN IN DT NN IN WRB TO VB DT NN RP , '' PRP VBD , CC RB VBN IN DT RBR JJ NN WDT VBD NNS , NN , JJ NNS , NN CC RB DT JJ NN . CC NN . PRP VBZ TO DT NN DT NN , NNS VBP , CC VBZ VBN VBG . IN NN , NNP NNP VBZ PRP$ NN IN JJS IN NN TO DT NN IN PRP VBD RB VB NN VBD RB JJ . 
JJ NNS IN VBG IN NN NN CC NN NN VBP VBG IN NN . JJ NNS VBP VBN IN DT NNS : VBG NNS , IN NNS CC NN NNS IN JJ NN , CC NNP . : VB JJ TO VB NN NNS . CC DT JJ NNS VBP TO VB DT NNS , DT RBS JJ NNS IN NN IN NNS CC NNS . NNS CC PRP$ NNS VBP VBN VBN TO VB PRP$ JJ NNS . IN NNS , IN NN CC NN VBD VBN DT JJ NN IN NN IN NN NN , WDT VBZ RB CD NNS DT NN . CC IN NNP , NNS VBD DT NNS IN DT JJ NN IN NNP , WDT VBD IN NNS WP VBD VB NN VBD JJR NNS CC VBD JJR NNS IN JJ NNS , CC PRP VBD RB VB JJ NNS DT JJR IN NNS WP VBD RB VB PRP . IN IN NN , JJ NNS WP VBD CD JJ NNS IN NN DT NN RB VBD DT NN VBD CC VBD IN DT JJ NN NN VBD JJ IN VBG NNS CC VBG NNS . 
NNP POS NN VBZ DT JJ NN . IN DT NN RB VBN IN VBG JJ FW RB '' NNS WDT VBP JJ NNS TO NNS POS NNS , RB RB IN VBG NNS IN JJ NN , NNP VBZ VBN TO VB JJ NN IN NNP POS , DT NN WDT VBZ VBN JJ NN IN PRP VBD RB VBN DT NN RB . DT NN VBZ VBN JJR IN CD NNS RB TO NNP POS NN , CC PRP VBP VBG IN CD JJ NNS IN NNS TO RB VB DT NN . IN CD CD NNS IN DT NNP NNPS VBP VBG IN NNP POS , VBG TO DT NNP POS NNP , DT NN NN VBN IN JJ NNS RB RB IN NNS CC JJ NNS , VBG NN NNS . IN DT NN CC JJ NNS , DT NN IN DT IN DT NN MD VB TO CD CD IN CD , DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNS . '' VBP DT VBZ VBG TO VB DT NN , CC RB CD IN DT JJS NN NN JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN , '' VBZ NNP NNP , CD , NNP POS JJ JJ NN . PRP VBZ JJ IN NN TO VB WRB TO VB NN NN IN DT NNP NNPS IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB TO VB IN DT NN . PRP RB VB TO VB RP DT NN , CD NNS IN RB IN PRP$ NN VBZ JJ : PRP VBZ JJ . '' 
PRP VBD IN DT NN , CC DT NN IN JJ NN NNS TO VB PRP IN PRP$ NN , WRB PRP VBP DT NN NNS VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . CD JJ NNS VBD IN JJ NN VBZ RB DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN NNS , DT NNS IN NN . DT NNS , VBN IN JJ JJ NN , VBP IN NN NN TO DT JJ NNS WDT VBP VBN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN CD NNS . IN JJ MD VB JJ IN NN NN , PRP VBZ RB JJ WP VBP : DT JJ NN , NN CC NN NN : MD VB DT NNS IN NN IN DT NN . PRP NNS VBP RB NN TO VBG PRP IN PRP$ NNS . IN DT NNS , NN VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN . CC JJ NNS RB VBP DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN IN VBG PRP IN DT JJ NN IN NN . 
IN DT NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNS WDT VBP JJ CC JJ NNS , DT NNP IN NNPS VBD DT NN DT NN WDT MD VB DT JJ NN CC JJ NN WP VBZ DT NN TO VB NNS CC JJ JJ NNS . RB , IN PRP$ NN TO VB NN CC VB PRP$ NNS IN DT JJ NN , DT NNS MD VB DT NN IN NN WDT VBZ VBG JJ NNS . IN DT NN IN DT NN VBZ JJ , JJS NNS MD VB DT RB JJ NN IN VBG VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN . NNP VBZ TO VB VBN VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN VBZ VBG RB RB RB JJ . DT NN VBD IN NNP NNP VBG IN DT NN WDT VBZ , IN NN , RB JJ : IN TO VB JJ NN IN NN IN NN NNS VBN IN RB JJ NN NN , VBN NNS , WDT VBP VBN IN NN IN NN NNS . DT NN VBZ JJ CC JJ NNS IN JJ NNS VBP DT NNS DT JJ NN IN JJ NN , RB JJ IN VBG IN DT NN CC RB DT JJ NN . NNS , VBG DT NN , VB DT NNS TO VB JJ NNS IN NNS WDT VBP DT NN IN VBG JJ IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN . PRP VBP JJ NNS IN NN IN NNS WDT MD VB DT NN . 
NN , '' PRP VBD , CC PRP VBD RB JJ IN PRP$ NNS VBP NN CC NN , CD NN RB VBZ JJ TO VB DT NN . '' 
RB IN NNS VBP JJ TO VB TO JJ NNS , JJ NNS MD VB . DT VBG NN MD VB JJ CC JJ NNS WDT VBP NN . WP VBZ JJR , RB IN NN IN VBN NN VBP JJ IN DT NN NN , CC RB DT JJ IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD . JJ NNS WP VBP VBG VBP VBN IN NNS IN WRB DT NNS MD VB . CC VBP JJ NNS VBP IN DT NN WDT NNS IN DT VBN NN CC IN PRP MD VB , FW VBP PRP RB CC WRB VBD RB PRP DT NN WDT VBD DT NN VBN IN NNP CC NNP . '' '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS RB VBP , VBP PRP VBP NNS PRP VBP VBG IN PRP$ NN VBG JJ NNS VBN IN NN RB . '' '' NNS VBP JJ NN VBZ RB RB JJ IN NNS WRB DT NN POS NN VBZ VBN JJ IN PRP VBZ IN NNS WRB NNS VBP VBN TO VB , VB CC RB VB IN NN IN DT VBG NN . 
EX VBP RB DT NNS IN WP NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ DT NN CC NN IN PRP$ NN . EX VBP RB DT NNS WP VBP VBN IN VBG VBN VBN . IN PRP VBP NN WP VBZ DT RB JJ , JJ JJ CC JJ , CC PRP VBP IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN IN NN NN , PRP VBP RP PRP$ NN NN RB . IN IN VBG RB , PRP VBP PRP NN CC NN CC DT , PRP VBP VBN PRP$ NN IN NN , CC PRP MD VB IN DT NN RB MD VB VBN PRP$ NN . PRP MD VB VBN RB CC PRP MD VB VBD DT NN NN IN CD . PRP VBP IN DT NN IN DT NN . CC PRP RB VB VBG IN NN CD . RB NN VBZ VBN CD JJ NNP . VBZ IN DT NN , PRP MD VB PRP DT JJ NN , IN EX VBZ DT RB JJ NN IN DT VBZ RB JJ IN VBG NN IN VBG PRP DT NN . PRP VBP NN CC PRP VBP VBN . 
NNP VBP NN CC NN , NN NN , NN CC NN , RB RB IN NN CC NN IN DT NN CC NNS . IN DT JJ NN CC RB , DT NN NN NNS IN DT NN VBD VBN CC VBN IN VBG NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNS NNS . CD NN VBD DT JJ NN WP VBD IN VBG DT NNP NNP JJ NN . NNS VBP VBG IN NN RBR RB IN RB IN , CC PRP VBP IN VBD NN VBZ RB RB VB DT JJ NNS . DT NN MD VB IN JJ JJ NNS VBP VBG RB JJ NN . CC VBP VBN DT JJ NN IN VBG NNS IN JJ NN , CC DT NNS VBP VBN IN TO DT JJ NN , VBG IN DT JJR PRP VBP , DT JJR , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP IN JJS IN DT NN NNS IN NN VBD RB JJ NNS WP VBD NNS TO VB NN IN NN . CC VBP DT NNS WP VBP IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , CC EX VBZ DT NN IN PRP VBP VBG RB JJ NN IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN IN NNP NNP NN IN DT NN IN DT NN TO VB NN IN JJ NN VBD DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP NN WP VBD IN DT NN POS NNS . NNP NNP VBZ DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , RB DT NNP NNP NNP . 
NNS MD VB PRP TO VB IN CD NNS MD VB DT NN IN JJ NN IN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , WP$ JJ NN VBD VBN NN , CC DT NNS IN NN WDT VBP VBN PRP . PRP VBZ IN NN WRB PRP VBP DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , WP NNS VBP NN IN JJ JJ JJ NNS . CD JJR NNS PRP MD VB IN , DT JJR PRP$ NN IN DT NN MD VB . '' IN DT NN IN NN , NNS MD IN DT JJ NN VB JJ TO VB NNS IN NNS VBG RB , VBG IN WRB PRP MD VB VBN IN NN , JJ NN CC JJ NNS . NNS VBG JJ NNS MD RB VB DT JJR NN IN RB WDT NNS VBP IN DT NN PRP VBP VBG . CC WRB , RB IN DT NN , DT JJ NN IN DT NNS IN JJ NNP : JJ NN NNS , VBN JJ NN NN CC NNP POS , IN DT NN IN NNS WDT VBZ DT NN IN NNP : VBZ JJ , NNS MD VB JJ TO RB VB JJ JJ NNS IN NNS VBN IN DT NN CC IN JJ NNS . 
JJR NNS VBD VBN IN NNP , WRB DT NNP POS NNP NNP VBD PRP$ JJ NN VBG IN DT NN IN JJ NN . DT JJ NN VBZ IN NNS VBD DT VBN NN IN NN NN CC NN NN IN IN TO CD NNS IN NN . CC NNS RB VBD DT NN IN NN VBD DT JJ IN PRP VBD IN DT JJ NNS . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN NN IN NN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS CC NNPS , VBZ IN DT JJ NN POS NNS VBD NN IN DT JJ . IN DT NN IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD VBN TO VB DT NN '' IN DT RB JJ NNS IN NN NN CC WP PRP VBD IN PRP$ JJ NNS . NNP NNP CC DT JJ NNS VBP DT JJ NN VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNS , CD , VBD JJR IN DT NN JJR IN DT JJ NN IN NN . WRB JJ NN NN IN JJ NNS , PRP VBP , WRB PRP VBD VBN IN NNS RB IN NN . 
'' VBP RB IN DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ NN IN DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC EX VBZ DT NN : RB DT NN VBZ NN NNS TO VB NN TO JJ NNS WP VBP VBN VBG . DT VBZ IN NN MD VB VBN IN DT JJ NN , DT NN NN NNS VBP , CC DT NN NNS VBP VBN JJ TO VB VBG JJ IN PRP$ RBS JJ NNS , IN NN NNS . '' VBP VBN TO VB RP IN PRP IN NN VBZ RB JJ TO VB DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN , IN NN NNS . RB IN DT NN NN , JJ NN NN NNS VBP IN PRP MD RB VB IN DT JJ NN . CC NN IN NNS VBP : NNS VBP RB VB NN . PRP VBP RB VB NN , '' '' NNP NNP VBD . IN NN , PRP VBD , PRP$ NN VBD IN NNS MD VB VBN TO JJ NNS RB IN VBG DT JJ JJ NNS . 
NNP NNP , NNP NNP POS NN , VBD IN RB , UH , '' DT NN IN DT NN POS VBP VBN VBN IN '' TO DT NN NN . DT NN MD RB VB VBN DT NN IN DT NN IN DT NN , DT JJ NN POS NN . IN NNP CD , DT NN VBD VBN TO NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN WP VBD VBN IN DT NN . DT NN RB , PRP VBD VBG , CC RB VBD DT NN , VBP JJ CC NN . IN NNP CD , DT NNP NN VBD IN PRP$ NNS VBD DT NN IN NN NN , VBG JJ NN , CC CD NNS RB PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN . CC PRP$ JJ NN CC JJ NN , '' VBZ DT NNP NN IN DT NN , CC NN VBN TO VB NN CC NNP NNP VBD IN NNP CD , CD . '' 
DT NNS WP VBP NNP POS NNS VBP TO VB DT NN CC JJ NNS PRP VBD VBN TO VB IN DT NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBZ NNP . RB , '' PRP VBD , FW NNS VBP RB , CC VBD NNS . '' VBZ VBP TO VB IN , IN DT NNS VBP VBN TO VB JJ CC NNS VBP VBN TO VB VBN , NN VBZ RB DT JJ NN . JJS NNPS VBP IN JJ NNS , VBG CC VBG IN JJ NN . IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBP RB VBN IN JJ , JJ NN . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBZ DT NNS VBP IN NN VBG JJ NN CC RB VBG PRP . EX VBZ DT JJ NN NN TO VB DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT NNS VBP VB DT NN IN NN CC VB PRP RP , PRP VBD . CC PRP$ NNS VBP VBN VBG VBD RP . CC DT VBZ NN IN PRP$ NN . '' 
DT NNS IN NNS CC NNS VBP RB RBR JJ WRB PRP VBP NNS IN JJ . DT NN PRP VBP PRP VBP TO VB RP DT NN PRP VBP IN DT NN IN DT JJR NN , PRP MD RB VB DT NN WDT VBZ PRP VBP RB VB TO VB PRP RP IN DT . NNS VBP RB VBN IN DT IN DT NNS PRP VBN VBD RBS JJ TO PRP$ NN : NN , NN , NN : RB VBP RB RB JJ , CC DT , IN NNS , MD VB JJ IN PRP . PRP VBZ JJ TO VB DT NN TO VB , '' DT CD NN IN WDT NNP NNP VBZ DT NN IN DT NN NN NN VBD TO DT JJ NN . WRB PRP VBZ RP , PRP VBZ IN NNS VBP VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN IN DT JJ '' NN . CC JJ DT JJ NN . '' PRP VBP IN NN . CC NNS . NNP NN . '' NNP NNS RB VBP DT NN IN PRP VBP IN DT JJ NN IN NNP IN PRP VBZ JJ TO VB IN NN WDT VBZ JJ , IN JJ NN , MD RB VB JJ IN PRP . VB PRP VBZ PRP$ NNP NN WDT VBZ PRP VB IN DT JJ NN CC DT JJ NN VBP RB JJ . CC DT NNS VBG JJ , DT JJ NN IN PRP MD RB VB JJ IN JJ . NNP RB , WP MD VB IN PRP VBZ RB RBR JJ TO VB IN DT NN IN DT NN IN PRP VBZ TO VB NNS , CC IN JJ NNP VBZ RB RBR JJ IN DT NN . 
CD NNS RB , DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NN NN IN JJR NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN IN PRP MD VB RP JJ NN . IN RB , DT NNS IN DT NNS VBP VBN RB RBR JJ . NNS IN NNS VBP VBN , IN VBZ JJ NN IN DT JJ CC JJ NNS IN DT NN , VBN IN NNP : RB VBG IN DT JJ $ CD CD JJ NN . IN NN NNS RB JJ NNS , JJS JJ NNS VBP IN VBG NNP , IN IN RB VBN NNS . JJ NNS VBP PRP VBZ DT JJ JJ NN . CC VBZ DT NN VBG IN IN JJ NNS WP VBP VBG IN DT NN IN DT MD VB VB PRP VB PRP$ NN CC NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNS IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP . IN JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBZ IN JJ NN CC JJ NN , RB NN NN , MD VB JJ CC JJR NNS IN VBG NN NN CC VBG NN IN JJR NNS IN DT NNS IN NNP , WDT MD VB RB TO $ CD DT NN CC VBZ RB VBN IN NN . 
IN DT JJ NN , NNP CC NNP VBP VBN VBN IN VBG TO VB IN DT NN JJ NN NNS WDT VBD IN JJ NNS IN NNP MD VB JJ TO DT NN . NN NNS VBP PRP$ NNS IN NNS IN NNS DT NN , CC JJ NNS VBP DT NN IN DT NNS CC NN NNS TO DT NNP . IN RB JJ IN JJ NNS TO VB , DT NN NNS VBP JJ TO NNS CC JJ NNS , WP VBP PRP TO VB NNS CC NN IN NNS TO JJ NN NNS . CC NNS VBP RB VBN TO VB NN NNS TO NNS CC DT NN . DT NNS CC NNS VBP JJ NNS VBP VBN , CC DT NN WDT MD VB DT NNS TO VB JJR NNS VBD VBN IN DT NNP IN NNP . NNP RB DT NNS VBP VBN VBN IN DT NN . DT NN POS NNS VBP JJ , VBD DT NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP IN NNP . 
DT NNP NN VBD CD NNS WP VBD NN NN NN CC DT NN NN IN CD NNS WP VBD NN IN JJ NNS . DT VBD VBN IN CD CC CD IN NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP CC IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP ( DT CD NNS VBP IN VBN ) . IN PDT DT NNS VBD NNP NNP NNS . DT NNS VBD IN NNP NNP NNP , RB VBZ . DT CD NNS VBD JJ IN NN , NN , NN , NN CC NN WRB DT JJ NN VBD VBN . NNS VBD JJ NN , VBN IN NN , IN CD NNS IN NNP POS , VBD NN , JJ NN NNS RB RB VBN IN JJ JJ NN IN NNS IN JJ NN : IN NN , DT NN RB RB VBN IN JJ NN : CC IN CD JJ NNS VBG NNP CC PRP$ NN NNS . DT NNS , WDT VBP IN NN NN IN JJ NNS , VBP VBN NNS CC RB VBP JJ NNS WDT MD VB DT NN . DT NNS VBD IN PDT DT NNS VBD JJ NNS IN DT NNS IN PRP$ NN VBZ IN PRP VBD IN NNP , NNP CC NNP NNP NNP . IN DT NN IN CD NN IN NNP , PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NNS IN NNS CC NN NN NN . 
IN NNS , PRP VBZ VBN DT JJ NN : RB DT JJ NNS VBN IN NNS MD VB VBN TO DT NN NN . RB RB VBP NNS RB VB NN CC JJR NN IN NNS IN NN IN NN NNS , CC DT NNS RB VBP IN PRP MD VB TO VB CC VB DT JJ NN IN NNS , VBG NNP POS NN , JJ NN , NN NNS , DT NNS IN NN , JJ NN CC NN . DT JJ CD CD NNPS VBP NNS . IN JJ NN NNS VBN JJ NN , NNS JJR VBP JJ TO VB VBG DT NNS , CC JJ WP RB VB PRP VBP JJ TO VB PRP$ NNS VBN . IN NNP CD , DT NNP NNPS IN NNP , IN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD RB VBG DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN IN NNS IN JJ TO JJ NN IN NN NN . DT NNS VBD VBN IN JJ NNS VBG JJR IN CD NNS . 
DT NNS VBP RB VBN IN JJ NNS . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP , VBZ VBN JJR IN DT NN VBG JJ NNS . NNS MD VB IN DT JJ NN IN NN JJ VBZ VBG TO PRP , CC WRB PRP VBP PRP RP , PRP VBP , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBP RB VBN DT NNS IN DT JJ CD NNS IN NN VB JJ . '' NNP NNP VBZ NN VBZ JJ TO NNS CC VBZ DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS . IN DT JJ NN NNS , PRP$ NN VBZ DT NN WRB PRP MD VB PRP$ NNS CC PRP$ NN . IN DT JJ NN VBZ VBG RB RB , PRP VBZ RBR IN JJ NNS TO VB DT NN WRB PRP MD VB PRP$ NN IN NN . WP VBZ JJR JJ IN NNS IN IN JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC NNP NNP CC JJ NNS DT VBP IN PRP$ NNS IN VBG RB VB TO VB VBN . 
RB , IN DT NN , PRP VBD DT NN WDT VBD RB VB RB IN CD NNS : PRP$ NNS VBD RB VBN CC RB . PRP VBD DT NN POS NN CC PRP VBD PRP VBD VBG DT NN CC IN PRP MD VB . RB PRP VBP IN NN . PRP RB VBP RB VB WP TO VB IN DT NN . PRP VBP JJ TO VB RB TO DT NN JJ NN , CC PRP VBP RB VBN RP VBG NNS DT NN . CC IN DT NN , PRP VBP VBG TO VB TO PRP$ NN : PRP VBZ JJ IN JJ NN , CC PRP VBD PRP MD VB PRP IN NN JJ . PRP VBP PRP VBZ JJ , CC RB JJ NNS VBP VBG DT NN IN PRP : VBZ PRP MD VB PRP , RB . NNP NNP , CD NNP , NNP , NN PRP VBD VBG NNS CD NNS RB . PRP$ NN VBD DT NN WP VBD PRP RP . PRP VBD DT JJ NN PRP MD VBN TO PRP$ , CC WRB PRP VBD PRP$ NN , PRP VBD PRP IN NNS IN JJ NN . IN DT NN , PRP VBD VBG JJ NNS : PRP VBD RB VBG PRP RP IN NN , CC PRP VBD VBG RP IN DT NN IN NN . 
DT NNS VBD TO VB DT NN IN VBG NN NN CC NN CC IN VBG DT NN NNS . 
NNP NNS , RB , VBD RB JJ IN DT CD NNS : CC RB RB JJR IN DT NNP NNP NN . NNP NNP VBZ JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN VBG DT NNP NNPS IN NNP . '' VBP NN NN VBG RB VBZ VB DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' PRP MD VB IN NNS IN DT IN PRP VBZ DT NNS . '' DT JJ NN IN NNS VBG IN DT NNP NNP VBZ VBN RBR NN TO DT NN . DT NNP IN NNP DT NN VBD DT NN IN NNS WP VBD NN NN NNS IN NNP NNP , NNP , IN CD TO CD . PRP VBD IN DT NN NN NN NN VBN IN CD NN IN JJ NNP . NN IN DT NN VBD VBN IN CD . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP CC DT JJ NN IN NNP . NN , VBD DT NNS VBG . '' PRP VBD : CD VBP JJ IN IN JJ NN IN NNP . VBG CC JJ NNS , PRP MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . '' 
RB RB RB IN PRP VBD RB JJ IN DT JJ NN TO VB . CD WP VBD , NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP , NNP , VBD PRP VBD NNS VBG RB IN PRP$ NNS VBD IN IN PRP$ NN , VBG TO VB TO DT NN WP$ NNS VBD RB VBN IN PRP$ NN . NNP NNP VBD VBN IN RB RB IN CD IN PRP VBD DT NN IN NNP POS . WRB PRP$ NNS VBD TO VB IN DT NNP , NNP NNP VBD DT NN CC VBD VBG IN PRP , CC IN NNS PRP VBD NN VBG NNS . RB , NNP NNP VBD , DT NN VBZ VBN CC NNS VBP PRP RB . PRP VBZ NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN , VBN NNP , WDT VBZ CD NNS CC VBZ NNS IN DT IN DT NN . DT NNS , WP RB VBD TO DT NNP . IN NN , VBD PRP RB VBD TO VB DT NNS . WRB NNP . POS VBD TO DT NNP NNP NN IN DT CD POS , NNS IN NNP NNP , DT JJ NN CC NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD JJ IN IN PRP VBD RB NN PRP MD VB DT NNS . CD VBD IN DT NN CC VBD RB JJ IN PRP MD IN NN IN VBG VBN RP WRB DT NN VBD DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC , PRP VBD : NN MD RB VB RB JJ CC VBP RB JJ NNS CC RB VB DT NN NN . '' 
CD JJ NNS VBP RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC RB VB PRP WRB JJ PRP VBP TO VB PRP VBP EX IN PRP . '' IN NNP CC NNP NNP NN VBZ , NNS MD VB JJR IN DT NN IN MD VB JJ IN NN NNS . NNPS RB JJ NNS CC NN NNS CC MD VB JJ NNS : PRP VBP JJ TO VB NN NN IN VBG DT NN IN JJ NNS : PRP MD VB NNS POS NN TO VB CC VB PRP$ JJ NN , IN VBG DT NN CC NNS : CC PRP VBP JJ TO VB DT NN IN NN . NNP NNP NNP , CD , IN NNP NNP NNP , VBZ VBN VBG NN VBZ RB , IN VBG TO NNP NNP IN CD . VB VBD DT NN IN JJ NNS WP VBD TO DT NNS WRB PRP VBD DT NN IN PRP , '' PRP VBD IN PRP$ JJ NN , IN NNP NNP . '' PRP RB VBD DT NN TO VB TO CD IN PRP$ NNS . PRP VBD IN DT NN IN NN , VBN IN NNS , CC EX VBD DT NN NNS . WRB PRP VBD TO PRP$ NN , PRP VBD PRP NN NNS CC JJ NN NNS WDT MD VB PRP . '' 
RB , JJ NNS VBP VBN NNS IN NNS WP VBP TO VB IN DT NN NN RB . DT NN IN NN WP VBZ DT NNP , RB , VBZ TO VB VBG . IN DT NN VBZ RB DT NN IN NNS WP VBP TO VB DT NN CC DT NN NN NN , WRB PRP MD RB VB NNS IN DT NN , PRP VBZ RB RB VBG NNS WP VBP TO VB NN . DT NN NNS , NN IN DT VBG NN , RB VBP DT NN NN MD VB PRP DT JJ NNS TO VB PRP TO VB IN VBG PRP WRB TO VB PRP$ NNS RBR RB . CC DT NN VBZ JJ , IN NN RB IN DT NNS IN NNS IN NNS . NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBD JJ NN IN WRB PRP$ NN VBD PRP$ CD NNS IN IN TO VB DT NN NN NN , CD NN VBN JJ NN . DT JJ NN , IN VBG NNS IN NNS IN NN NNS , VBD TO VB IN DT NN IN NNP NNP . 
IN DT JJ JJ NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN , VBD VBG IN PRP$ NN NN RB IN NNP , VBG DT JJ NN VBG NNP : DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP POS NNP , '' WDT PRP VBD IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NN . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN TO VB DT NN NN IN DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBD IN NNP CC VBZ RB DT NN IN NN IN PRP$ JJ NN CC DT NN IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP . NNS , PRP VBP RB TO NNPS CC PRP VBZ PRP$ NN TO VB PRP$ NN VBG RB JJ TO DT IN JJ NNS . '' NNP NNP VBZ RB RB VBN TO VB DT NN , DT NN IN NNP POS NN CC IN DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN POS NN CC NN . IN CD , PRP VBD IN DT JJ NNS TO VB DT NNP NN , WDT MD RB VB VBN IN DT JJ VBN NNP POS NN . CD NNS RB , PRP DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ NNP POS NN , DT JJ NN . RB , IN CD , PRP VBD NN IN DT NN WDT VBD CD JJR NNS VBN IN NNP POS . 
POS VBP VBN TO VB PRP IN PRP , '' PRP VBD . NNS VBP RB VB NN IN PRP . PRP MD VB PRP IN JJ . PRP MD VB IN IN VBG . PRP VBZ RB DT NN NN , CC NNS VBP RB VB TO VB PRP . NNP , NNP , PRP MD RB VB IN DT NN . CC VBP DT NN IN JJ NN CC DT JJ JJ NN , CC PRP MD VB JJ , CC PRP VBP VBN TO VB DT JJ JJ NN , RB . '' DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , CD , IN NNP , VBD RBR JJ , CC RB RBR JJ IN DT NNS IN DT NN . CC VBD CD NNS JJ CC PRP VBD VBG RP DT NN NNS IN NNP NN CC NN , '' PRP VBD . NNS MD VB PRP VBG IN DT NN WRB PRP VBD CD . '' PRP VBD TO VB , PRP VBD , NNS IN NN : NNS CC NNS CC NNS , CC PRP VBP VBG NNS IN DT NN . '' CD NN , VBG DT NN NN , NNP NNP VBD RP PRP$ NN TO VB RP DT NN , CC RB . 
NNS MD VB IN PRP MD VB DT NN IN NN IN DT NN CC DT NN NNS RB IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT JJ WP$ NN CC JJ NN NNS PRP$ NN POS NNS . '' PRP VBP VBN VBG TO DT NNS IN RB DT JJ NN IN CD NNS RB CC PRP VBP VBN IN PRP VBZ DT RB JJ CC JJ NN TO VB , RB IN DT NNS VBN . '' PRP$ NN , NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP WP VBZ DT NNP NN WDT VBZ RB JJ IN DT NN , VBZ PRP VBZ JJ JJ IN DT NNS . JJ NN VBZ PRP , '' EX VBZ NN JJ RB , '' CC VBP PRP VB DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN CC NN IN DT JJ NN . '' PRP VBD . CC CD NNS IN RB PRP MD VB RB CC VBP PRP VBD NNS . '' RB JJ NN NNS VBP IN DT NNS MD VB DT NN IN NN . IN RBS DT NN , WDT VBZ IN NN NNS IN CD NNS CC DT JJ NN IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN NN , MD VB DT JJ NNS . 
IN DT JJ JJ NNS , VBG NNP NNP , NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD RB VB TO NNS POS VBG NN NNS IN NN NN NN IN DT MD RB VB VBN RB CC IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN IN VBG NNS JJ NN . NNP NNP VBD PRP MD VB NN IN NN VBN IN NN NNS RB RB IN DT NNS WP VBD DT NN VBD VBN NN , VBD RB VBN CC VBD VBN DT NNS IN VBG NN IN NN IN VBG DT NN CC VBG PRP RP IN NN . CC NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD TO JJ NN IN NN IN DT NN IN NN VBZ JJ . '' DT NN POS NN VBZ NN TO DT NNS IN JJ JJ NNS VBP VBG . IN NNP POS NN JJ NN TO VB $ CD CD IN JJ NN NN NN , IN JJS CD JJ NNS , VBG NNP NNP , NNP NNP CC NNP , VBP VBG NNS TO VB NNS IN DT NN CC VB JJ NNS . 
RB , DT NN TO VB NN VBZ CD IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN , IN WDT NN NNS VBP VBN IN NN VBN IN DT NN POS JJ NNS . DT NNP IN NNPS VBZ VBN TO VB DT NN , CC DT NNP VBZ VBG DT NN . CC DT NNS VBP IN NN MD VB VBN IN DT JJ JJ NNS , VBG DT NN IN JJ NN . '' VBP RB VB PRP MD VB TO VB TO DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC NN IN NNP . NNS VBP RBR JJ . RB NN IN DT NNS VBP VBN VBN TO DT NN WRB PRP MD VB PRP VBP RB VB TO VB JJ NN RB , '' VBD NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBG DT JJ NN IN VBG . JJ NNS WDT VBD NN IN NN VBD IN NNS . DT JJ NNS VBP VBN VBN RB IN NNS VBN JJ CC JJ NN NNS . 
NNP NNP , IN CD , VBD PRP VBD DT NN . DT NNS IN DT NN NN NNS VBD VBN , PRP VBD , IN NNS VBG IN NNS VBD RB RB NNS CC JJ NNS . IN VBG VBD IN NNS VBG NNS IN WRB TO VB NNS , IN VBG JJ NN CC NN NNS CC VBG TO DT JJ NN , JJ NN . DT NNS IN PDT DT NNS VBD IN JJS CD NN VBN IN NN CC VBD RB VB NN . PRP VBD NN IN DT JJ JJ NNS , RB , IN DT JJ NN IN MD VB VBN IN DT JJ NN IN VBG . VB VBD VBN DT NN RB , DT VBD VBN VBD CD NNS , CC DT IN DT JJ PRP VBD VBG RP IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN VBD , NNP . PRP VBD NN VBD VBN TO VB DT DT . '' PRP VBD IN DT JJR IN PDT DT NNS VBP IN DT JJ NN . DT NNS , PRP VBD , VBD RB NNS CC JJ NNS VBN IN DT JJ NN CC VBD NNS WDT VBD IN DT NN IN DT NN WDT VBD VBN RB VBN . 
NNS CC PRP$ NNS , RB , VBP DT JJ NN . NNP NNP , JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD PRP VBD TO DT NNP WRB NNS VBD DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN JJ NN . CC VBD VBG IN NNS RB RB IN PRP MD , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD VBG , IN JJ , PRP VBD , VBG : VBG PRP VBP VBZ , '' RB JJ , '' JJ NNS VBG JJ NN . '' '' CC , PRP VBD , WRB PRP$ NN POS NN NNS VBD RB , NNP NNP IN JJS VB WP PRP VBP CC PRP VBD JJ TO VB PRP$ NNP NN . PRP$ NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBD TO VB TO DT NN POS NN , CC IN RB VBD RB JJ IN PRP . '' VBD IN PRP$ NNP NN , PRP VBD , PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN NNS : CD VBD DT NN NN DT IN DT . PRP VBP EX VBP DT CD NNS . WRB VBP RB PRP VBG DT JJ NN . '' 
IN NN , NNP NNP VBD , DT NNS IN DT JJ NN VBD RB DT JJ NN NN IN DT IN NNP NNP POS NN . CC PRP$ NN NN , RB , VBD RB VBN IN VBG . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN POS NN , IN NN NN NN MD VB JJR NN IN JJ , VBD JJ . CC , PRP VBD , PRP VBZ NNS MD VB PRP TO NN CC RB VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NNS PRP VBZ DT NN NN . CC POS JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ RB JJR TO VB DT NN : VB PRP JJ : CC VB PRP TO DT NNS . CC IN RB VBZ RB DT JJ NN IN DT NNS . '' 
NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NN , VBZ NN NNS MD VB RP VBG VBN CC VBN . JJ NNS VBP VBG TO VB TO VB PRP TO VB JJ IN DT NN , DT NN NN , NN , '' PRP VBD . JJ NNS VBP VBG TO VB NN IN DT NN . '' RB , NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD JJ NNS VBD RB NN JJ TO VB DT NN CC NN IN NN NNS . DT VBG NNS IN DT JJ VBP RB RB VBG DT NN , PRP VBD . NNS VBP TO VB NN TO VB PRP . '' DT JJ NNP IN DT NN NNP NNP , DT NNP NN , VBD DT JJ JJ NN JJ NNP , PRP VBD VBN IN NN IN WP PRP VBD DT NNP NN NN . '' PRP VBD VBN NN . NNP NNPS . DT NN IN NN NN . RB DT JJ NN IN NN , NNS CC JJ NNS . 
DT NN NNS VBP DT JJ NN VBG IN DT NN , IN DT NN NN CC NNS IN . CC VBD NNP NN JJ NN CC PRP VBP VBG VBN IN JJ NN NNS , '' DT NN NN . NNS MD RB VB PRP RB , CC RB PRP MD . '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT NNS IN DT NNS VBP PRP VBP JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , CC RB IN NNS WP VBP RB CC RB IN NN POS NN . CC NN NNS , NNS , NNS , IN NNS WP VBP NNS IN NN IN NNS WRB EX VBP NNS IN NNS , PRP MD VB NN TO VB NN IN , '' PRP VBD . IN NN WP VBZ RB VB NN IN NNS CC NNS , RB VBG IN DT NN IN JJ NNS VBZ RB JJ NN TO VB DT NN , PRP VBD . RBS JJ , PRP VBD , DT WP VBP TO VB VBN : CC DT WP VBP RB : MD RB VB VBG NNS WDT VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN . 
NNP NNP , IN RB JJ JJ NN NN NNS IN NNP NNP , VBD VBN IN NNS IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN IN WP NN , IN DT , NNS CC NN NN MD VB IN NN NN IN NNP NNP . IN PRP VBD DT NN IN PRP VBD VBN WRB DT NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP NN VBD VBN JJ NN CC VBD IN CD NNS RB VBD IN JJ NNS IN NN NN VBP , IN NN , RB RB JJ IN DT NNP POS NN NN , WDT VBZ JJR IN DT NN CC JJ NNS . DT NN IN NNP NNP VBZ CD NNS IN CD NNS CC IN NNP NNP , DT NN VBZ CD . DT NN POS NN VBZ CD NNS IN CD NNS , CC RB , PRP VBZ CD . IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NN VBZ CD . VBN CC RB VBD , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBD DT MD VB PRP PDT DT NNS , CC DT NN IN NN VBZ PRP RB VBZ JJR NNS . '' 
DT NNS VBG DT NN IN NNS IN VBG NN NN VBP RB VBN DT NN JJR NN . PRP VBD VBG RB WRB CD JJ NNS VBD RB JJ NN IN EX VBD RB JJ NNS IN DT NNS WDT VBP TO VB DT NN IN NN IN DT NNS VBD RB JJ . CC JJ NN , DT NN IN DT NN POS JJ NNS IN NN VBG VBD IN DT NN VBG NN VBD JJ . PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN JJ JJ NNS IN EX MD VB JJ JJ NN TO VB DT JJ NN NN VBG NN WDT VBZ VBN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP JJ NN . IN NNS RB , DT DT NNP NNP NNP CC DT JJ NNP NNP VBP VBN VBG JJ NNS IN NNS IN DT NN IN CD IN DT NN TO VB NNS IN PRP VBP RB RB JJ CC JJ TO VB . NNS IN DT NNS VBD IN NN NNP , VBG IN PRP MD VB JJ TO VB DT NN NN IN PRP VBP VBZ DT NNS IN JJ NNS . CC DT NN VBN IN DT JJ NN DT NN VBZ PRP JJ IN DT NNS VBP DT NN RB CC RB RB VB IN DT JJ NN . 
DT NN NN , IN RB , VBZ VBN IN DT JJ , RB DT WP VBP TO VB DT JJ NNS RB CC RB . CC IN RB VBZ CD CD NNPS , RB DT JJ IN DT NN NN , CC CD CD IN NNP NN , CD CC JJR . PRP VBP , IN NN , DT NN CD NNS CD NNS JJ CC VBG JJR IN CD NNS , CC DT NN CD NNS JJ CC VBG JJR IN CD NNS . DT JJ NN VBZ IN TO VB JJ JJ NN , WDT VBZ $ CD TO $ CD IN EX VBP DT NNS , CC RB VBZ WRB JJ NN MD VB VBN CC DT NNS WDT MD VB VBN . CC JJ JJ NNS RB RB IN JJ NN NNS , VBG NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP , WP$ NNS VBP NNS IN JJ NN NNS RB RB IN NNS IN NNP NNPS CC NNP NNP , VBP PRP VBP NN IN JJ NNS , RB . 
NN NNS PRP IN PRP VBP VBD DT NN IN NN , CC IN DT NN VBZ RB VBN , PRP VBP VBG TO VB TO VB DT VBG NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP VBG TO VB DT NN NN IN NNS IN DT NN NN NN RB IN NN IN DT NNP NNPS NNP . CC JJR IN RB NN VBZ VBG NNS DT NNS . JJ NN NNS VBP IN DT RBS RB JJ NN NNS IN NN . CC NN VBZ RB JJ IN EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT VBZ CD NN NN WRB PRP VBZ RB VBN IN CD NN IN NN NNS VBP RB RB VB RP IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP . VBG NNP IN NNP IN DT NN , EX VBZ DT VBG NN IN NNS VBG IN NN NN . DT NN IN NNS VBG NN NNS JJ NN VBD IN CD NN VBD PRP MD RB VB IN NN NN IN IN NNS , JJ NN , JJ NN CC DT NN IN NN NN VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN . 
JJ NN IN VBG CC NN VBZ VBG DT NN IN NN , '' PRP VBD . IN NN MD VB , NNP NNP VBD , PRP MD VB VBN IN JJR NNS IN NNS WP$ NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN WRB DT NN VBZ RBR JJ CC RBR JJ CC VBG . DT NNPS MD VB NN NN VBN . NNP , WDT VBZ VBG VBN TO JJ NN , VBZ CD IN DT JJ NN NNS WDT VBZ VBN VBN IN JJ NNS . DT NN NNS IN DT NN IN DT NNS WDT VBP JJ VBG NN VB DT NN NN IN NN NN . DT NNS VBP IN DT NN VBZ JJ , IN PRP VBZ NNS IN NNS IN NNS VBG VBN IN NNS TO VB DT NNS IN DT JJ NNS CC IN IN PDT DT JJ NN NNS IN DT NN POS NNS VBP PRP NN IN DT NNS VBP JJ . JJ NNS VBP DT NNS VBP IN NNS MD VB NNS IN NN NN . 
DT NNS VBP VBG VBN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . CD , VBN IN NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD CD NNS WP VBD VBN NN CC JJ NN . NNP VBD DT JJ , JJ NN IN JJ DT NN , CC DT NNS VBD DT NN . DT NN VBD RB , IN DT NNS VBD RB JJ : IN NNS VBD VBN PRP$ JJ NNS IN DT NN IN CD NNS , CD NN IN DT VBG NNS VBD JJ NNS , VBN IN CD NN IN DT NN NN . DT JJ NN , VBN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBD CD NNS WP VBD RB VBN NNS , WDT VBD VBN VBN . DT NNS VBD RB VBN TO VB DT NN , DT JJ NN CC DT JJ , JJ JJ DT NN . CD NNS RB , IN DT NN POS NN , CD NN IN DT NNS VBG DT NN NN VBD NNS , VBN IN CD NN IN NNS VBG DT NN CC CD NN IN DT VBG JJ NN . DT NNS VBD PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN NN POS NN TO DT JJ NN IN DT NN , CC IN DT JJ NN IN NNS IN DT JJ NN CC DT NN . 
DT NNP NN VBG RP IN DT NNP NNPS VBZ CD NNS RB JJ TO VB VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN , VBG TO DT JJ NN VBN IN DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP . IN IN CD NNP NNS VBZ CD TO CD IN NNP CC NNP , CD NN VBD VBN VBN IN NNS VBN IN DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP , VBN IN RB IN CD NN IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN NN , DT NN , NNP NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP , WP VBZ RB VBN NNS IN NN IN NNP NNS , VBD PRP$ NNS IN JJ IN DT NN IN DT VBG JJ NN IN NN '' IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP . JJ NNS VBD DT NN IN NN IN JJ NNS IN NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP . JJ NNP NNS VBP VBG JJ IN PRP VBP RB VBG JJ JJ NN CC PRP VBP VBG RB JJ NN , CC DT NN NNS IN WRB PRP VBP RP VBP JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
IN NN , JJ NNS RB VB TO VB RP IN NN NNS , IN VBG NNS CC NNS IN DT NN . PRP VBP IN NNS , JJ NNS , VBP JJ NNS CC VB PRP RP . IN DT , JJ NN NNS VBP TO VB . VB NNS , PRP VBP TO RB VB NN NN CC VB DT NN CC VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NNS VBP RP IN DT NN MD VB PRP$ NN IN DT NN CC NN NN IN PRP VBZ RB , VBZ RB VB , VBZ PRP$ NN NN CC VBZ DT JJ NN JJ IN NN CC JJ NNS . VB PRP$ NNS VBP JJ , PRP VBZ RB RBR TO RB VB IN PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD IN , IN PRP$ NN , JJ NNS WP VBD NN NN RB VBD DT NN PRP VBD JJ TO NNS . NNP NNP VBD JJ NNS MD VB VBN IN WRB RB PRP MD VB IN IN NN , VBN IN WP PRP VBD IN NNS WP VBD VBN VBG DT NNS . IN PRP VBP RB VBG DT NNS RP , DT NN IN DT DT WP VBD PRP VBD RB JJ RBR VBG DT NNS VBP VBG IN PRP VBD RB IN NN , '' PRP VBD . 
NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , RB VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN WDT VBD DT JJ NN NN . PRP VBD DT NN VBD TO VB VBN PRP$ NN POS NN . CC NN IN DT JJ NN NN VBZ JJ CC PRP$ NNS VBP TO PRP TO VB JJ CC JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC NN VBZ TO VB JJ , JJ RB IN JJ CC VBZ DT NN TO NN CC RB TO NN . '' 
DT NN NNS VBP PRP VBP VBG NN IN NN TO JJ NN NNS IN DT JJ NN VBP : NN WDT VBZ VBN VBN TO NNS , NN NN CC JJ NNS CC RB VBZ IN JJR IN $ CD CD IN DT NNP NNPS POS $ CD CD JJ JJ NN . DT JJ VBP VBN IN DT IN DT JJ NN NN NN IN CD CC JJR . IN DT NN , JJ NNS RB VBP RP NN IN DT NN NN . CC JJ NN NN NNS VBP DT RB RB JJR NN IN JJ DT NN RB VBZ IN IN DT JJR IN CD NN IN NNS IN DT NN WP VBP RB JJ , DT IN DT NN NN NN IN CD CC JJR . JJ NNS RB VBP DT NN : DT MD VB NN : IN PDT DT NN MD VB TO NNS WP VBP IN DT NNS VBP CC MD VB TO VB DT JJ NNS . 
DT NN , VBN IN DT NNP NNP , NNP CC NNP NNP , VBD DT NN IN RB CD NNS CD CC JJR , DT VBN CC VBN JJ IN NN IN DT NN IN DT NN . DT NNS VBD DT NN IN DT WP VBD NN NNS ( DT NNS CC NNS ) CC DT WP VBD RB . IN DT NN IN DT NN , CD NNS VBD NN . CC VBG NNS TO VB NN VBD TO VB DT NN IN VBG WDT NNS VBD RB . DT JJ NN DT NNS VBD VBD IN DT WP VBD DT NNS CC RB VBD VBG PRP VBD RB RBR JJ TO VB NN IN DT WP VBD RB VBN PRP . RB DT , NNP NNP NNS , VBD RB JJ TO DT NNS PRP . RB , JJ IN DT NNS VBD VBN RP DT NN WRB JJ NNS VBD CC NNS VBD DT RBR JJ NN IN NN . RB PRP VBD RB RBR VBG DT NN WRB PRP$ NN VBD RB VBN . 
CD VBD IN NN IN PRP VBD VBG IN DT NN , VBD RP PRP$ NN , VBD DT NN , CC RB VBD RB TO NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN NN NN NN , PRP VBD TO VB JJ . '' DT JJR NNP NNP , WP RB VBD DT NN , VBD JJ TO VB PRP$ NN IN JJ NN IN NN VBP . EX VBZ DT NN IN NN CC JJ NNS VBP RB IN PRP$ NNS . IN NN , IN CD NNS IN NNP NNP IN NNP VBD NNS IN DT NNS IN CD JJ NNS CC VBD IN DT NNS VBD RBR RB VBN CC RBR VBG IN DT NNS . CC DT NN IN NNS IN JJR IN CD NN POS NN NNS IN IN CD TO CD , VBN IN NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP , VBD IN JJ NNS VBD JJR NN IN NNS . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBD PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN CD IN NN TO JJR NN IN NNS . RB PRP RB VBZ IN NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , TO VB IN PRP$ NNS , TO VB PRP$ NN CC TO VB NNS NNS VBP RB JJ TO VB PRP , PRP VBD . 
NNP NNP VBZ IN VBG DT JJ PRP , VBG NNS TO VB RP NNS IN DT NN IN VBG DT NN RB , IN DT JJ VBZ DT NN IN DT NN . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNS NN IN NNP POS NNP IN NNP CC DT NN IN DT NNP NNP , VBZ NNS TO VB NN , NN NN NNS CC NNP . DT NNS VBP PRP JJ TO VB NNS TO VB , IN PRP VBP RB JJ WRB TO VB PRP , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP . '' NN VBZ IN NNS VBP TO VB DT NN IN JJ CC NN '' IN VBG IN DT JJ NNS IN RB NN , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT JJ NN . IN DT NN IN DT NN IN NNS CC RB NN , NNP NNP VBD IN IN VBG IN NN , NNS VBP RB VBN IN PRP$ NNS POS NN CC PRP$ JJ NNS IN VBG JJ NN . 
CC EX VBP DT JJ NNS . DT JJ NN NNS VBP VBN DT NNS TO VB IN NNS CC PRP$ NNS VBP DT NNS CC VB IN PRP , DT NN IN NN IN NNS VBP VBZ VBG . CC IN DT NN IN NN CC IN JJ NNS , IN DT NN IN NN NN , VBP IN , DT NN NN NN VBZ VBG DT NNS VBP . DT NN VBD RB , DT NN IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ CD IN DT RBS JJ , CC JJS JJ , NNS IN NNS . NNS IN NNP VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN MD VB NNS IN DT NNS RB RB NNS VBD . DT JJ VBG NN VBN IN NNP , IN NNS IN DT NN VBD IN NNP CC NNP . IN JJ , DT NNS VBD JJ . JJ JJR NNS VBD VBN , CC PRP VBD VBN RB . NNP JJ NN , RB IN DT JJ NN , WRB DT NNS VBP TO VB , CC PRP$ NNS VBD RB . 
RB , DT NNS MD VB VB TO VB RB IN DT NN . DT NNP . VBZ RB VBN TO VB DT NNS IN DT NNS . DT NN , RB , VBZ WP NN IN NNS NNS MD VB TO VB TO , VB WRB JJ IN PRP$ NNS MD VB VBN IN JJ NNS TO VB NNS IN VBG NN TO DT NNP NN . IN RB , DT NN NNS , IN PRP VBP VBN VBN TO DT NNP . IN DT NN , VBP VBN VBN IN JJ NN NN '' IN DT NN . DT NN VBZ VBN VBN IN JJ JJ NN RB IN RB TO VB DT NNS IN DT NNS MD VB VBN . JJ JJ NNS MD RB VB NNS WDT VBP VBN RB RB VBN NN . CD NN VBN IN DT NN NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD IN DT NNP . TO VB PRP$ NN IN NNS IN RB VBN NNS VBD DT NN TO VB DT NN . 
IN DT JJ NNS , DT NN VBD JJ CC NN . NNP VBD IN WRB DT NN IN DT NN VBD VBN , NNS , CC NNS , VB RB CC VBD RB JJ . DT VBD TO DT JJ NN VBN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NN NN NN IN NNP NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . DT NN VBD VBN IN DT NN IN PRP VBD VBG CC VBD DT NN NN WDT VBD DT VBG NN IN PRP$ NN . CC VBD CD NNS RB IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN JJ , RB VBN NNS , NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP VBD RB WRB RB DT NN VBZ PRP$ NN . PRP$ NN VBN RB CD NNS WP VBD VBN DT JJ NN IN NN IN IN JJS CD NNS , DT NN IN PRP$ NNS VBD IN PRP$ NN VBN NN . PRP VBD TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS VBD WP PRP VBP , VBG DT NNS RB VB NN IN PRP VBD CD NN JJR IN PRP$ JJ NNS CC RB VB NN IN PRP VBD CD NN JJR IN PRP VBD WRB PRP VBD . 
NNP NNP MD NN DT NNS IN DT NNP NNPS TO VB NNS TO VB JJ NNS WDT VBP NNS IN NNS IN NNS DT NN , CC PRP MD VB NNS TO VB DT NN IN JJ NNS , NN NNS VBD NN . IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP VBZ TO VB IN DT JJ NN IN VBG JJ NNS , RB IN DT NN VBN IN NNS TO VB NN NN NNS , DT NNS VBD . NNP IN VBG TO VB DT JJ NN RB , PRP VBZ VBG DT NNS TO VB NN NNS IN CD NNS . DT NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP NNP VBP RB VBN JJ NN IN NNS , VBG PRP MD VB NNS CC NNS TO RBR NNS . IN NNS CC NN NNS VBP VBG VBN , PRP VBD , PRP MD VB JJ TO VB DT NNS WDT MD VB VBN IN PRP$ NNS . RB NNP NNP POS JJ NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN NN RB . 
NNP NNP NNP NNP , IN NNS IN JJ NN NNS IN DT NN , VBZ VBN RB IN JJ NNS TO VB TO DT NN IN DT JJ , JJ JJ NNS RB . PRP VBZ VBN JJ NNS IN DT NN RB VBD JJ IN IN DT NN PRP$ NN : DT NN NN CC DT NN NN : CC PRP RB MD VB DT JJ NN NN . PRP VBZ RB VBN RP VBG NNS IN NN NN CC NN , VBG RB IN NNP JJ NNS IN DT NNS CC VBG DT JJ NN IN NN . TO JJ NN NNS , DT NNS VBP JJ IN DT JJ JJ NN . NNP NNS IN JJ JJ NNS IN NNS IN NN NN CC NN NN MD VB VBN , CC VBG NNS CC JJ JJ NN MD VB DT NN CC NNS IN DT NN NNS VBD TO VB PRP . '' VBP DT NN IN JJ NNS , PRP MD RB RB VB IN CD JJ NN CC VB IN DT MD VB IN PRP , '' VBD NNP PRP . NNP , DT NN IN DT NN NN IN NN NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNPS IN NNP . '' NN RB VBZ TO VB JJ NNS IN NNS IN NN CC VBP NN NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN . IN PRP VBP DT VBZ DT JJ NN . '' 
IN DT NNS , IN JJS , DT NNS VBP VBG RP . NNP VBD NNS IN JJ NNS VBD CD NNS DT NN IN PRP$ NN NN NNS . NNP , DT NNP NN NN , VBD VBG NN NNS VBD PRP VB JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN NN . DT NN IN NNS VBP DT NN . CD VBG CD NNS IN NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN , VBD IN JJ NNS IN NN NN , NN NNS , NN CC NNS VBD CD NN JJR IN JJ NNS . CC NNP NNP , VBG PRP$ JJ NNS IN CD NNS , VBD IN IN JJ NNS VBD JJR , PRP$ JJ NNS VBD IN RB DT NN IN DT WP VBD RB JJ . CD JJ IN DT JJ NN IN NN TO NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP . NN VBZ RB JJ , RB JJ , RB JJ TO VB . JJ NNS VBP RB . NN VBZ VBG IN NNS , VBG DT NN JJR NN CC VBG DT NN RBR . '' 
MD WDT VBZ DT NN , RB PRP MD VB TO VB JJ IN DT NN TO VB DT NN RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN IN NNP CC NNP POS NNP IN NNP , VBD DT NN VBD NN TO DT NN WDT JJ NNS CC VBN NNS MD VB IN DT JJ RB RB IN DT NN , RB IN VBG NN NNS TO VB '' NNS IN WRB CC WRB TO VB . EX VBZ DT VBG NN IN NN WDT VBZ IN EX VBZ DT NN IN DT NN CC DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD DT NN VBD RB JJ IN PRP VBD VBN IN NNS IN JJ NN . IN RB , JJS IN DT NN NN VBZ VBN NNS VBG IN JJ NN . IN JJ NNS , NNS WP VBD JJ NN NN VBD RB VB PRP VBD JJ . DT NN VBD VBN IN VBG DT NNS VBP JJ NNS DT NN IN CD NNS . NNS RB VBD DT NNS IN DT NNS VBG NN CC , 
WRB NNP NNP CC PRP RB VBD IN PRP MD VB DT JJ NNP . JJ TO VB IN NN NN , PRP VBD IN DT JJ NN TO VB . IN DT NN , NNP NNP , DT JJ NN , VBD CD CC VBD DT NNS IN NN NN : RB RB DT NN . CC PRP VBD VBN NNS IN JJ IN PRP$ NN . IN JJ NNP . NN VBZ RB VBG VBN IN DT NN TO VB NN , RBR JJ NN NNS IN NNS , PRP VBD VBN TO VB PRP$ DT NN . NNP NNP CC PRP RB VBD DT NNS CC NNS IN DT JJ NNP , WDT VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ JJ . PRP VBD PRP IN DT CD NN WDT VBD VBN VBG TO VB VB CD NN NNS IN CD JJ NNS CC JJ NNS . IN DT NNS VBD RB VBN TO JJ NNS IN DT NN , CD NN IN DT NNS VBD VBN IN CD NNS IN NN , CD NNS RB JJ IN VBZ JJ IN NNS IN NN NN . 
WDT DT NN , DT NN RB VBZ IN VBG NN NNS DT NNS IN JJ NN . NNP VBP RP , NN NN VBZ RB , NNP . VBZ RP , NN VBZ RB , DT NN NNS CC NNP NNS NN . NNP NNP , CD , IN NNP , NNP , VBD VBN IN PRP VBD JJ VBN JJ NNP . CC IN CD NNS IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP WDT VBD JJ , NN CC CD JJ NNS , PRP VBD CD NNS CC VBD JJ TO VB DT IN PRP$ NN NNS , RB IN PRP RB RBR VBZ DT JJ NNS IN DT NN . JJ NNS IN JJ JJ NNS : VBG DT JJ NN : VBG NNP , DT NN JJ NN : CC JJ JJ NN : VBP VBN IN PDT DT NNS VBP JJ IN VBG DT NN NNS IN JJ NN CC RB IN VBG DT NNS IN DT NN . DT CD NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBN NNS WP VBD VBN IN DT NNP NN : JJ NNS , NNS CC NNS , NNS CC JJ NN : IN DT NN WDT VBZ DT JJ CC JJ NN . NNS IN DT NN RB VBD PRP$ NN IN CD NN . 
IN DT JJ NN , DT NN IN NN NN VBZ VBN VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN IN DT NNS TO VB NNS . NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , WP VBZ RB DT JJ , VBZ VBN DT NN TO VB NN NNS TO VB IN PRP$ NNS IN PRP MD RB VB JJ NNP . POS , RB DT JJ NN . IN CD , WRB PRP VBD IN DT NNP IN NNPS , PRP VBD DT NN NN VBD NNS NNP RB VB JJS NNP POS . '' NN NNS VBP DT VBZ DT NN IN NNS TO VB DT RB VBN JJ NN . CC NNP . NN VBD NNS VBP JJ TO RB DT JJS NNP . NNS , '' NNP NNP IN NNP VBZ . NNP NNP VBD PRP IN PRP VBZ RB JJ : POS VBP RB DT JJ NN . PRP VBP NNS IN NN NN NNS . CC DT VBZ RB NN IN DT NN . DT JJ NN VBZ VBG NNP POS . '' DT VBZ RB DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN , RB . DT NN EX VBZ RB IN VBG DT JJ NN WDT VBZ NN IN DT JJ NN . IN DT CD JJ NNS IN NN NN NN , '' VBZ VBN IN DT NN NN NN NNS IN DT RB JJ JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ JJ NN . '' 
VBN NN POS JJ NNS CC NNS IN DT JJ NN , '' DT JJ NN , PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB IN NN VB PRP '' IN NN NN , NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ VBG TO VB DT NN JJR NN TO RB VB DT NN . '' 
NNP NNP IN NNP , WP VBD DT JJ NN IN DT CD NN VBG IN NNS VBD NN NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS IN NNP . ( PRP '' NN ) CC JJ NNS IN NNP . ( '' '' NN ) , VBD PRP VBZ TO VB DT NNS VBN IN DT NN RB . CC JJ NNS MD VB PRP$ NN TO VB DT NN , PRP VBD . CC VBP DT NNS VBP TO VB DT NN IN DT VBZ RB IN NN , CC IN PRP VBZ DT JJ NN NN , '' PRP VBD . IN DT NNS , NNS VBP VBG JJR IN RB PRP$ NNS . NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NN NN NN IN NNP , VBD VBG NN , VBN IN NNP NNP , CD NNS RB . IN DT JJ NNS , PRP VBD NN NN CC VBD TO PRP$ NN . PRP VBD PRP VBD VBN NN VBN IN DT NN . PRP VBD PRP TO VB VBG PRP , CC PRP$ NN VBD RB WRB PRP VBD . 
PRP VBD IN NN IN NNS IN JJ NN NN NNS IN NNP NN NNS , VBG PRP$ NN CC NN RB JJ . NNS VBP TO DT NNP TO VB WP PRP$ JJ NN NNS VBP . WRB NNP NNP , DT JJ NN WP VBZ IN NNP , NNP , VBD IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN NN NN , PRP RB VBD TO DT NNP . PRP VBD TO PRP$ NN TO VB PRP$ NN , CC NNP NNP VBD , '' VBD RB VB PRP VBD JJ . '' IN NNP NNP VBD NNS . NNS RB VBP DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBD NN PRP RB VBP TO . PRP VBZ RP TO PRP RB , CC IN DT NN POS RB VBG TO VB DT , PRP VBP RB VB TO VB VBN IN PRP . '' NNP , CC NNP , NNP NNP NNP NNS VBP DT RBS JJ NNP NNS VBP DT VBN IN DT JJ NN , IN NN :  , CC IN JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP . 
TO DT NN , NNP NNP CC DT NN VBP VBG IN TO DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT $ CD CD NN IN DT NNP NN TO VB JJ NN . DT NN IN DT NN : DT NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP : IN NNP VBD NNP POS NN TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT RB JJ NN . CC RB IN VBG VBD RP DT NN IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NN , JJ NN NNS RB IN DT JJ NN : NN NN NN . IN DT JJ NN MD VB PRP$ NN IN JJ NN NNS , NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN IN NNS VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN . DT VBZ IN IN DT JJ NN NNS , PRP MD VB TO VBG JJ NN NNS IN VBG DT NN , PRP VBD . NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD RB TO VB WP PRP VBP VBN IN JJ NN IN NNS CC VB PRP TO NNS , IN DT NN VBG NNS IN WRB TO VB JJ JJ NNS IN NNP POS CC NNP POS . 
CD VBZ IN DT NN NN IN NN NN VBZ VBN RB IN DT JJ CD TO CD NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP MD RB VB IN JJR NN VBZ DT JJ TO NN : PRP RB VBZ NN TO VB IN JJR NNS . CC NNS VBP VBG PRP$ NNS VBG JJ NN CC NN . DT NNS WP$ NNS CC NNS VBD IN NN NN VBP RB JJ IN DT . PRP VBZ DT NN . '' DT NNP NN VBD NN TO DT NN WDT IN JJ NNS , DT NNS VBN IN NN IN PRP$ JJS NNS MD VB VBG NNS CC RB JJ JJ NNS WP$ NN VBZ RB VBN . CC JJS NNS VBP VBG JJR IN VBG VBN . CD JJS JJ NN PRP VBP VBZ IN NN WP MD RB VB WRB PRP VBZ VBG VBN DT JJ NNS IN NN RB WP VBZ RB RB , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP NNP . 
JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD PRP$ JJ NN IN CD : PRP VBD IN PRP VBD RB VB NN . IN CD , IN NNP VBD JJ NN NN IN DT NN , CD CD NNPS VBD NNS , VBG TO DT NN JJ NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP . DT NN , IN NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , VBD IN DT CD CD NNS MD VB TO VB VBN RB IN JJ NN IN NN CD VBD DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNPS . DT JJ JJ NNP NNPS NNP NNP NNS VBP RB VB NN IN JJ NNS . NNP NNS IN DT NN NN , WP$ NNS VBP TO VB VBN IN JJS NN NNS , VBP JJ IN NNP CD . IN DT NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN NN , VBD DT NN VBD RB VBN NN POS NN IN NN , CC VBD PRP NN TO VB RB . 
NN VBZ RB VBN TO VB DT NN IN NN . NNS VBP IN VBG DT NN POS JJ NNS . NNP NNS VBP IN VBG NN IN RB DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS VBP DT NN IN NNS , NNP NNP VBD . NN VBZ RB VBN IN NN , DT NN IN JJ NN NNS WDT NN NNS . NNS VBP PRP VBZ JJ TO VB RP WP VBZ NN TO VB IN . IN NN , PRP VBZ TO VB JJ NNS IN NN NNS CC NN NN . CC IN JJ NNS , DT NN VBZ JJR TO VB . IN NN , JJ NNS VBP IN VBD JJ NNS , VBG IN DT NN , VB DT NN NN . DT VBP JJ NNS CC NNS . JJ NNS VBP VBN IN DT JJ JJ CC JJ NNS VBP DT NN IN NN NN . DT JJ NNS VBP NNP NNP CD , DT NN WDT VBZ JJ NNS : NN , WDT RB VBZ DT NNS : DT NNS VBN IN JJ NN : NNP NN , WDT VBZ NN NNS : CC NNP NN , WDT VBZ NN CC NN . NNP VBZ VBN VBN IN JJ JJ NNS . 
PRP RB VBD , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , IN WRB NNS VBP NN , PRP MD VB NN NN , VBP NN NN CC NN NNS IN VBG NN NNS IN NN . DT VBZ IN DT NNS VBP NNS IN VBG NNS , NNS WDT MD VB IN JJ NNS WDT MD VB NNS VB . NNP NNP VBD IN NN NNS , CC VBD IN JJ VBD VBG JJ NNS IN NN . NNP NNS VBP VBN RBR JJ , RBR JJ TO VB IN NNS , CC PRP RB VBD TO VB RB JJR IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBD DT NN IN JJ NNS IN NNS . NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP VBD IN CD NN IN NN NN NNS VBD NN , CC IN DT JJ JJ NNS VBD RB . RB , NNP NNP VBD , IN JJS CD JJ NNS VBP NNS WDT VBP JJ JJ . '' NNPS VBG IN DT JJ NN IN NNS VBD IN DT NN NNS VBD VBG JJ NNS IN NN . 
NNS VBP RB VB TO VB IN DT JJ NN IN NNS WDT MD VB PRP TO VB PRP , '' PRP VBD . MD VB IN DT JJ , JJ NN , CC IN PRP VBP VBG IN NNP NNP NN RB , EX VBP DT NN NNS . PRP VBZ DT RB JJ JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ VBG . '' DT NN , WP VBD RB TO VB VBN IN PRP VBD JJ VBG PRP$ NN NN RB , VBD NNP RB VBD IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN WP VBD NN IN JJ NNS . CC PRP VBP TO VB JJ , VB NN , PRP MD VB RB JJ , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ DT JJ DT NN IN NNP NNP , DT JJ NNP CC JJ NN WP IN CD VBD VBG IN NNP NNS VBN IN NNP . DT NN RB NNS DT JJR NN : PRP VBZ IN NNP NNS , CC JJ NN PRP VBD NNP NNP , CD , DT JJ NNP NNPS NN , IN DT NN . NNP NNP VBZ VBD IN PRP VBZ VBN NNP , CC VBD RB VB PRP . 
DT NNS VBD IN NNP . NNS IN DT NNS VBN RB IN DT NNS VBD TO DT CD NNS DT JJ NNS VBN IN NN NN , CC DT NNS VBD VBD TO VB DT RBS JJ TO VB IN DT NN IN VBG NN . IN CD NNS , RB , DT NNS VBD RB VBN , IN VBD DT NNS . IN RB IN NN CD , DT NNS VBD VBG NNS IN DT NNS VBN IN NN NN , DT NNS VBD , CC IN NNP IN DT NN VBD TO NNS JJ IN NNP NNP NNP NN . IN JJS IN DT NNS , DT NN IN JJ NN VBD RB JJ , VBN IN DT JJ NN , IN NNS IN DT NNS VBZ RB NN TO VB RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN CC NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP . DT NN , VBN NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS , VBD VBN IN NNS IN DT NN CC DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP , IN NNP NNP NNP , NNP . DT NN MD VB VBN NN IN NN . 
CC JJ NNS VBN IN DT NN POS NNS , VBD PRP . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN , NN , CC NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP , VBD DT NNS VBD JJ NN CC JJ '' CC PRP VBD VBG DT NN VBD VBG TO VB DT NN VBZ TO VB . NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD PRP VBD VBN DT NN IN DT IN DT NN . DT NNP IN NNP NN VBD VBN RP IN DT NN IN NNP . PRP$ NN VBD IN DT JJ NN , DT NN IN NNS CC RB DT JJ NN IN NNP CD , CD , WRB RB CD NNS VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS IN NNP . NNS IN JJ JJ NNS VBD NNS , NNS VBD IN PRP$ NN , CC NNS IN NNS NN IN WRB PRP$ NNS VBD VBN VBN . DT VBD PRP VBD RB JJ IN PRP VBD NNS CC NNS TO VB IN , NNS PRP VBD IN DT NNS . NNS VBD IN IN PRP VBP PRP$ NNS , PRP$ NNS VBD DT JJ NN NNS . 
DT NNP IN DT NN , NNS VBD DT NN TO VB PRP$ NNS CC RB NNS , CC JJS VBD RB IN PRP MD VB RB PRP$ JJ NNS . PRP VBZ RB NN PRP MD VB IN , '' VBD FW , '' DT JJ NN NN WP VBD TO VB VBN RB IN PRP$ JJ JJ . PRP VBD DT NN CC NN , PRP$ NN NN VBD RB IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBD PRP VBD RB VBN NN IN NNS CC NNS . RB CD NNS VBD PRP VBD RB . CC MD VB PRP$ NN , '' PRP VBD . CC NN POS NN MD VB VBN . PRP VBZ PRP JJ RB VBG IN DT NN NN . PRP VBP RB VB TO VB WP VBZ RB , PRP VBP RB VB TO VB VBN , CC PRP VBP RB VB TO VB PRP RB RB . IN IN NN POS NNS , PRP NN DT JJ NN NN . '' RB JJS NN NNS IN DT NN VBD IN VBG RB PRP$ JJ NNS : POS JJ PRP$ NN IN DT NN NNS , '' VBD NNP , DT JJ NN . NNP VBD PRP VBD RB VBN NN NNS WP PRP VBD IN DT NN , CC VBD VBN IN PRP VBD . 
VBG TO VB NN NNS IN DT JJ NN VBZ RB DT JJ NN . DT NNP . VBZ NNS CC NNS , VBG NNS JJ TO NN NN VBG JJ NNS IN JJ NNS IN PRP VBP PRP RB JJ . NNS IN DT NNP . NNS VBP TO NNS VBN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP CC DT NNP IN NNP NNP , WDT VBD IN NNP . POS JJ VBD NN NNS IN CD NN NN IN NNS VBD PRP IN CD NN NN . JJ NNS VBP VBG NNS TO VB DT NN IN DT NNS VBP RB RB VB NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP , NNP , WP VBD IN DT NNP . NN WDT VBD NN NNS CC VBD IN NN . PRP VBD IN DT NN VBN IN CD IN DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP , WDT VBD NN IN DT NN NNS IN NNS IN NNS , MD VB IN DT NN IN NNS TO VB JJ NNS . '' VBP RB VBG IN NN VBZ JJ , '' PRP VBD . MD VBP VBG IN PRP VBP RB VB DT NNS TO VB RB . '' 
IN CD , DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBD NNS TO JJ JJ NNS VBG PRP IN PRP MD VB TO VB DT NNP NNP NNP , CC NNP , NN CC VB DT NN IN DT NN . IN DT NN MD RB VB IN DT NNS VBD VBN PDT DT NN , JJ IN JJ NNS VBP PRP VBP DT NN CC NN MD VB JJ . CC IN DT NNP . IN JJ NN MD VB RB $ CD TO $ CD CD CC VB CD TO CD NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBD PRP VBD VBG TO VB TO DT NNP CC NNP NNP TO VB DT RB JJ NN IN VBG NNS IN JJ NN NNS . PRP$ NN , VBN NN NN , VBZ TO VB PDT DT NN POS NN IN NN IN DT NN POS NN . RB DT NN IN NN MD VB JJ CC JJ NNS TO VB VB DT NN JJR NN . 
CC DT NN VBZ JJ NN TO DT JJ NN IN WRB TO VB NN , VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ IN DT NN IN NN CC VBG NNS . DT CD NNS IN DT NN VBD NNP VBN DT JJ CC VBD IN PRP$ NN , '' PRP VBD . WDT VBD NN IN DT NN IN CD , '' PRP VBD . CC VBP VBN NN IN JJ IN NNS VBP VBG PRP : PRP VBP PRP VBP JJR DT NNS . '' DT NN NNS VBP VBN JJ NNS TO DT NN IN NN , DT RBS JJ IN WDT , NNP NNP VBD , VBZ VBN DT NN IN JJ NN NNS . IN DT CD NN , RB , DT NN VBZ VBN VBN IN JJS JJ JJ NNS , WDT RB VBD NNS IN VBG NNS . IN PRP MD VB PRP VBP JJ , DT NNS MD RB VB VBN , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NNS PRP VBP IN NNS VBP TO VB JJR JJ CC VBP JJR JJ NNS . PRP VBP RBR JJ IN DT NN IN CD TO VB JJ NNS . '' 
IN DT NNS VBP NN VBZ DT JJ NN , RB DT JJ NNS VBP VBN TO VB JJ . NNP NNP , WP VBD DT NNP NN , VBZ IN CD NN TO CD NN IN JJ NNS VBP RB JJ NN . NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN CC JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD , NNS WP VBP JJ CC VBP DT JJ NN NN IN PDT DT JJ '' NNS POS VBP TO IN CD CC RB VB DT '' IN DT NNS . PRP VBD , '' VBP RB VB DT NN IN DT NNS . '' NNP NNP VBD PRP$ NNS IN NN '' CC DT WP VBP JJR VBP RBR JJ TO VB NNS . JJS NNS VBP VBN RP IN VBG JJ NN CC VBG TO VB NNS TO VB RP . IN CD NN , NNS VBP RB VB NN PDT DT NN , CC PRP VBP RB VB DT JJ NN IN PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBZ NN IN NNP NNP , DT NN NN WDT PRP VBD VBZ JJ CC NN IN JJR NNS . '' 
VBN TO NNP NNP , DT NN VBD VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NN CC DT NN PRP . PRP VBD VBN IN NN CC VBD RB RB JJ . PRP VBD IN DT NN TO VB PRP$ JJR NN TO VB NN . DT NNS VBD IN DT JJ NN TO VB NN IN DT NN , WP VBD VBG NN NN , VBD IN DT NN NN , WDT VBZ TO VB VBN IN DT NN , IN DT NN CC IN DT NN . PRP VBZ JJ TO VB PRP IN CC TO VB PRP IN , CC DT NN VBD VBG PRP RP . DT NNS VBD PRP$ NNS . PRP VBD PRP RP IN PRP$ NNS . PRP VBD PRP$ NNS . RB PRP RB VBD TO VB DT NN CD NNS , CC DT NN DT JJ NN VBD PRP . WRB , NNP VBD DT NN IN NN IN DT NN POS NN , VBP PRP VB VBG IN NN , WRB PRP VBZ RB JJ DT NN VBZ RB VB PRP . 
DT NNS VBP NNP NNP POS NN IN DT NN IN DT NN IN WDT NN , IN RB VBN , MD VB VBN IN NN IN NNS IN NNS JJ RB TO VB IN DT VBG NN . CD MD VB DT JJ NN IN PRP MD VB RB DT JJ NN PRP VBP JJ NN NN CC NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBZ IN VBG JJ NNS WDT MD VB JJ NNS . '' CC PRP VBD IN PRP VBD RB DT JJ NN TO RB VB NN IN NN , VBG PRP DT JJ NN . '' VBN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP NN RB VBG NN RB . EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN IN NN , IN JJ , VBZ VBG VBN IN RB RB JJ NNS IN DT IN DT NNS CC NNS . 
IN CD , NNP VBZ TO VB DT NN POS RBS JJ NN IN DT NNS IN NN . VBG RB TO DT NN WRB NNS MD VB PRP$ JJ NNS CC VB DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS IN VBG JJ NNS , DT NN NNS VBP TO VB DT NN IN JJ NN IN CD NNS , VBG PRP$ NN . DT NN , IN DT JJ CD TO CD NNS , VBZ TO VB RP DT NN IN NNS CC DT NN NN TO VB JJ NNS . IN JJS CD NNS VBP VBG JJ NNS , IN NN JJ NNS , CC VBP RB VBN PRP . NNP , DT NN , VBZ VBN JJ NNS CC NNP NNS IN CD JJ NNS TO VB NNS WDT VBP IN NN . PRP MD RB VB DT JJ NN IN NN NNS IN PRP$ NN NN NN . JJ NNS CC NNS MD VB IN DT NN . NNP POS MD VB DT JJS IN DT NNS VBN IN NNS CC PRP$ JJ NNS . PRP VBZ DT JJ NNS IN NNP POS CC IN DT JJ NN : IN DT JJ NN , PRP MD VB TO VB DT NNS IN NNS CC JJ NNS IN NN , NN , NNS , NN , NN CC NN IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NNS . VBG DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS MD VB PRP$ NNS JJ NN . NNP POS NN , IN NN , VBZ RB JJ . 
NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN , IN PRP VBD PRP NN TO VB WP PRP VBD . DT NN VBD PRP$ PRP MD VB VBN , CC VBD TO VB . CD VBD , PRP VBZ RB VB IN PRP IN PRP VBP , '' '' NNP NNP VBD , DT NN IN RB VBD TO VB PRP . '' VBD IN IN EX VBG , PRP MD RB VB JJ . '' '' NNP NNP , CD , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNS NN IN NNP , NNP , VBD RB VBN IN NN CC VBD RB VBN TO VB PRP$ NN IN JJR NN . CC , IN JJR CC JJR NNS IN JJ NNS , PRP RB VBD PRP VBD DT NN . PRP VBD TO PRP$ NN , VBD IN NN '' CC VBD . DT NNP VBZ IN VBD RP VBD VBG IN PRP$ NNS IN DT NN , WDT VBZ VBN WRB DT NN POS JJ NN VBZ DT NN POS NNS CC NNS . IN NN MD VB IN RB JJ TO NN NN , NNP NNP VBD NNS WDT VBD DT JJ NNS . 
RB NNP NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP VBP VBG DT NN , VBG CD JJR NNS . CC DT NN VBZ RB RB JJ , DT NNS VBP . RBS VBP TO VB JJ NNS VBP IN PRP VBP RB VB NNS RB TO VB PRP VBP VBD DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC , PRP VBD , DT NNS VBD JJ IN RB DT VBD VBN IN DT NN IN VBG VBN IN NNP . NNS VBP IN DT NN VBG IN NNS VBP DT IN PRP$ JJ , IN DT NNS . DT VBZ RB RB NN WDT VBZ JJ IN NNS TO VB IN PRP$ JJ CC IN PRP$ JJ NN . '' NNP NNP VBZ PRP VBZ CD IN DT JJ NNS . DT NNP NNS VBD PRP JJ NN CC PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN VBG PRP . '' VBD RB DT JJ NN IN NN , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBD VBG PRP IN NNP CC , RB RB IN JJS , PRP$ JJ NN VBZ JJ TO VB DT NN IN NN . PRP VBZ IN RB DT NN IN NNS TO VB IN DT NN VBZ RB VBG VBN . 
NNS VBD TO VBG RB , VBG IN VBG NN IN NNP NNP IN NN CD IN JJ NNS VBD VBG IN DT JJ NN CC VBG IN NNP CC NNP . PRP$ JJ NN VBD IN NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , WRB PRP VBD IN JJ NN CC NNP NNS CC VBD DT NN IN NNS VBP . VB NN TO VB PRP , CC PRP VBD VBN RP IN DT NN PRP VBP DT NNS IN NNS , '' PRP VBZ . JJ NNS VBD RB JJ NN , CC NNS : RB , PRP VBD TO PRP IN JJ NNS VBD NNS IN DT NN WRB PRP MD VB PRP VBD JJ . '' IN DT NN NN VBD VBN RB JJ , IN NN , VBP PRP$ NN IN NN VBD WP PRP MD VB IN VBG JJ JJ , NNS MD RB VB VBG PRP$ NN DT NN , VBG DT NN CC IN , VBG TO VB IN DT NN VBZ RB JJ CC DT NN VBZ RB JJ . TO PRP , DT VBD RB VBG RP DT JJ : PRP VBD RB VB DT NN . '' 
PRP VBD DT NN IN NNS VBD CD NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , WP VBP RB VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP CC NNP WP$ NN IN NNS VBZ RB TO VB IN NNS IN JJ NNS . PRP VBP NN , VBP JJ NNS CC JJS JJ NN , CC WRB PRP VBP JJ PRP VBP VBN IN DT NN . PRP VBP JJ NN IN NN , JJ NNS IN DT NN , CC VBP DT NN IN VBG IN DT NNS CC RB NNS . IN NN TO JJ NN IN NNS , DT NNS IN NNS NNP '' MD VB VBN IN JJ NNS CC NNS IN VBG . CC DT NNS PRP RB VB IN DT NN NNS . JJ NN MD RB VB IN PRP , NNP NNP VBD , CC IN NN VBZ JJ CC JJ NN JJ NNS MD VB VBN , DT NNS MD VB VBN . NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP CD IN JJ NN , '' DT JJ NN IN JJ JJ NN IN NNS , VBD DT NN POS VBN NN . PRP VBZ NNP NNP NNP NNP , RB NNP . 
VBG TO NNS WDT NNP NNP RB VBD PRP$ NNS POS NN , NNP NNP VBD : NN PRP VBZ VBN NNS , IN WP . PRP VBZ DT NN IN DT NN TO VB DT NN IN JJ NNS WDT VBP RB VBG RB . IN PRP VBZ : CC PRP VBP RB VBG PRP VBZ : PRP VBZ IN DT NN IN NN , NN CC DT JJ NN . '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBZ VBG NNS IN DT NN , VBD TO VB PRP$ NN TO NNP NNP TO VB DT NN NN VBD . NNS VBD TO VB PRP$ TO NNP NNP , PRP VBD . CC NNS VBP RB VB PRP , '' PRP VBD IN NNP NNP . CC VBP DT NN IN PRP$ NN VBZ JJ . DT NN VBD PRP$ NN TO PRP . '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT NNS POS CC NNS POS NN IN NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP POS NNS . JJ NN , DT NN VBD VBG NNP NNP TO VB IN NN IN NNS , DT NN PRP VBZ VBN IN PRP VBD TO DT NN , CC TO VB PRP$ NNS TO NN NNS IN NN , IN NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN TO VB DT NN NNS TO JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBD NN NNS IN NNP IN PRP MD RB VB NN IN DT NN . 
DT NN VBD CD IN IN CD NNS VBN DT NN VBD VBN NN TO DT NN , DT NN IN DT NN VBN IN JJ NN . NNP VBD DT DT RB JJ VBG RB VBN IN IN DT IN DT JJ NNS . '' DT JJ NN VBD IN DT NN IN NNS VBD VBN NNS WDT VBD DT NN IN IN PRP VBD DT NN . DT NN , NNP VBD , VBZ IN JJ NNS MD RB VB DT NNS POS JJ NNP , IN JJ CC RB JJ NNS . CC DT NNS WP VBP DT NN VBD DT NN NN VBD RB VBN IN NNS . PRP VBD DT JJ NN MD RB VB VBN VBN IN DT NN CC , IN DT NN , DT NNS VBD DT JJ JJ NNS RBR IN NNS VBD , RB IN PRP$ NNS VBP JJR IN DT CD DT NN IN JJ NNS . PRP RB VBD IN DT NN IN NNS VBD RB JJ IN NN NNS CC DT RB RB NN IN DT NNS VBZ TO VB VBN VBN . 
IN NN TO NNP NNP POS NN IN JJR JJ NNS , DT NN IN DT RB JJ NN NNS VBD RP PRP$ NNS TO VB PRP$ JJ NNS VBD TO VB JJ NNS IN DT NN . NNP NNP , IN DT NNP NN , WP VBZ DT NN , VBN : PRP VBZ JJ IN PRP VB NN IN DT NN CC RB VBD RP . PRP RB VBP RB VB NNS VBG IN DT NN VBG WP TO VB . '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT JJ NN VBD RP JJ NNS IN NN WDT MD VB WRB PRP VBP RB IN NNP . '' NNP NNP , IN DT CD IN CD NNP , VBZ NNS MD VB . CC VBD PRP$ IN DT IN PRP WP VBP RB VBN VBP RB RB , '' PRP VBD . CC VBP JJ CC PRP VBP RB VBG RB RB . '' 
JJ NNS POS NNS VBD JJ NN IN DT NN VBD IN DT NN POS JJ NNS MD RB VB VBN . DT NN VBZ RBS JJ WRB VBN RB IN NN , DT NN PRP$ NNS VBP VBN IN PRP MD VB JJ IN DT NN . VBN NNP , WDT VBZ VBN DT NN POS JJ NN , VBD DT NN VBG IN DT NN POS NN VBZ DT NN IN VBG NNS POS NN IN DT NNP . VB PRP$ NN DT NN . '' CC DT NN IN DT NN : DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP POS NN NN IN DT NNP NN : VBD NN IN NNP NNP IN IN PRP MD VB VBN TO VB NN IN NNS IN DT NN POS NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN . NN POS NN VBZ NN JJR IN DT NN NN , '' NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP IN NNP , DT NNPS , VBD IN DT JJ NN NN . DT NNS VBP NNS IN DT NNP , NNP , NNP CC NNP NNP , WDT VBZ VBN TO VB PRP$ VBG IN NNP NNP NNP NN CC VBZ RB VBN TO VB . 
NN NNP VBZ RB VBN IN JJ NN . RB IN DT NN VBD TO VB RP IN DT NN , PRP VBZ PRP VBZ PRP MD VB RB JJR JJ IN PRP VBD IN CD . CC PRP VBZ JJ IN PRP VBZ RB VBG RP , RB , IN JJS IN PRP$ NN IN DT NNP . CC VBD DT NN VBN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBZ JJ VBG NN WDT NN VBZ VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN , WRB DT NN TO VB NN IN PRP$ JJS JJ NN VBZ VBN NN TO DT NNS TO VB PRP . DT NN IN DT CD NN NN VBD DT NN NN VBG DT NNS IN DT NNP . IN NNP , DT JJ JJ NN NN IN NNP , NNP , DT JJ NN IN NN NNS IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP CC CD JJ NNP . IN DT NN VBZ VBN VBN IN , PRP VBZ JJ RB TO VB IN DT NNP . IN CD , NNP NNP , RB DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD VBG IN DT NNP NN WRB PRP VBD DT JJ NN VBP IN DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN IN DT CD NN MD VB TO VB DT NN IN DT NN WP VBD VBN VBN IN NN . NNP RB VBD DT NN . 
NN POS VBP PRP VBD TO VB PRP$ NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP NN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NN NN MD VB NN RB CC PRP MD VB RP RB CC VB . PRP RB VBP UH TO DT NN NN . '' NNP RB NNS PRP IN DT NNP , VBZ DT NN TO NNS CC VBG NNS CC VBZ NN NNS TO VB NNS POS NN . PRP VBZ JJ NN NNS TO VB NN NNS , WDT MD VB TO NNS IN NNS IN NNS , VBP JJ . NNP RB VBZ DT NN WP$ JJ NN VBZ TO VB IN RB DT NN , VBG IN DT NNS , VBG DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP VBZ VBN WRB RB NN MD VB . IN PRP$ JJ NN , IN NNP NNP , PRP VBD VB DT JJ NN NN IN DT JJ NN . CC VBD JJ , '' PRP VBD . DT NN VBD RP JJ NN NNS , VBG TO DT NN DT NN POS JJ NN : CD IN DT JJ NNS VBN IN DT NN , DT NN WDT VBZ IN CD NNS JJ . NN NNS VBP PRP MD VB JJR JJ IN DT NN IN PRP VBP NNS . DT NN RB VBD PRP$ NN NNS , JJ NNS WP MD VB NNS IN NNS WP MD RB VB PRP$ JJ . 
RB DT NNPS VBP VBN NN VBG NNS CC NN VBG JJ NNS WDT VBP NNS VB TO NNS CC NNS . CC IN DT NN VBZ JJ TO NNS , PRP VBZ VBN JJ RB RB IN NNS . RB RB IN NNS MD VB , DT NNS VBP DT JJ CC VBP RB RBR JJ CC RBR JJ IN JJ NNS . JJ NN , RB RB VBN IN DT JJ CD POS , VBZ VBN JJ TO DT NN IN NNS , VBG DT IN NNS VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NN , CC PRP VBZ RB VBN TO VB NN NNS CC VB JJ NNS . DT CD NN NNS VBD VBN IN DT NNP NNPS JJ NN , VBG TO NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP NN NN CC NN NN . VBG NNS VBZ VBN DT NN IN NN NN VBZ . DT NNP JJ NNP NNP VBZ IN CD NNS VBP VBN VBN IN NN IN NNP VBG VBD PRP VBD RB VB DT NN . 
PRP CC PRP$ NNS VBP JJ NNS IN VBG IN JJ NNS IN NNS CC NNS IN NNS WP VBP VBN JJ IN NNS CC VBG IN DT NNS POS NN NNS WDT IN DT NNS POS NNS CC , IN DT NNS VBD NNS , PRP$ JJ NNS . ( NNP IN JJ NNS RB VBP DT NN POS NN , CC PRP VBZ JJR CC JJR TO VB DT NN NNS IN VBG IN NNS IN DT NNP NN , NNP NNP VBZ . ) CD NN , IN NN VBD VBN NNP , DT JJ NN . CC WRB PRP$ NN VBD PRP , PRP VBD NNS WDT VBD RB PRP$ JJ . POS JJ NN VBD VBN IN JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NNS VBD RB NNP NNP . CC RB , IN NNS IN VBG NNS , VBG , JJ NN , DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN PRP$ . IN NN , JJ NNS VBG IN DT NN POS NN VBP DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN NNS CC MD VB VBN TO VB NNS . CC , NNP NNP VBZ , PRP VBZ RB RB VBP IN JJ IN DT NNS VBP JJ NNS : PRP MD VB PRP CC IN PRP MD VB IN DT IN DT NN POS JJ NNS : CC WRB DT NNS VBP , CC WRB , RB IN NN , TO VB PRP TO NN . 
NNP NNP NNP NN , NNP NNP NNP PRP VBP VBN IN DT NNP . NN . PRP VBP CD , CC PRP VBP VBD CD NNP . POS , CC DT VBP VBN JJ . PRP MD VB DT CD RB CC WRB PRP VBP CD , PRP MD VB VBG PRP DT NN . DT NN VBZ RB JJR IN JJ NNS . PRP VBZ VBN RB TO NN IN PRP . PRP$ NN VBD JJ NN , IN PRP VBD RB VB IN PRP , CC RB JJ IN PRP$ NN NNS . WRB PRP VBP CD NNS JJ , WDT VBZ WRB PRP$ NN VBZ JJ , CC DT VBZ WRB PRP VBP TO VB VBG DT NNP . NN . PRP VBP PRP VB IN JJ NN IN DT NN , VBG TO JJ NNS CC NN NNS , CC RB VBG TO VB NN TO PRP$ NNS . WRB PRP VBP NNS PRP VBP DT NN , PRP VBP IN NN : RB RB JJ IN DT NN NN CC DT NN . DT NN VBZ RB VBN TO VB NN VB PRP . CC PRP VBP PRP , PRP MD VB IN DT NNS . PRP VBP IN RB RB IN JJ NNPS IN NNS VBP IN NN NN . 
NNP NNP VBD DT NN VBZ RBS JJ JJ NN IN NNS POS JJ NN NN IN DT NN NN NN . '' PRP VBD DT NN IN DT WP VBP NNS , CC DT IN PRP VBD PRP IN DT NN IN NNP NN NN . CC VBP PRP MD VB NNS VBP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP POS NNS CC JJ NN NN . CC VB WRB PRP VBP DT IN VBG NNS JJ , JJ CC JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD , VBG DT JJ NNP NN NN . CD MD VB PRP RBR JJ CC RBR JJ . '' IN PRP$ NN , DT NN NN VBN RB JJ NNS IN NNS POS NN TO VB DT NN , IN VBG IN DT NNS VB JJ TO VB DT NN IN NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN JJ CC IN PRP VBP JJ IN NNS WP VBP NN VBP JJ NN TO JJ NNS , MD PRP VB PRP . 
NNP NNP , VBD TO VB IN DT NNS , NN IN VBG NN NNS IN DT NNP POS NN . DT NNS MD VB VBN TO VB IN NN NNS , CC RB VBD TO VB WP VBZ JJ , WRB , CC WRB . NN MD VB PRP$ NN , PRP MD VB NNS IN PRP , '' PRP VBD . IN DT NN IN NNS , VBZ NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP , JJ NNS VBN IN DT NN POS JJ NN NNS MD VB DT JJ NNS IN DT JJ NNS . PRP MD VB , RB IN DT JJ NNS NNS VBD . NNP NNP VBZ IN IN NNS VBZ VBN WRB DT NN NN VBZ DT NN , IN VBZ JJ , RB NN NNS MD RB VB VBN CC VBN . NNP VBZ DT JJ NN , CC VBG PRP TO VB JJ NN NNS MD VB JJ . VBG JJ JJ NNS , CC DT VBZ VBG JJ NNS WP VBP TO VB NNS . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN RB IN EX VBD NNS CC RB IN NNS VBD WRB TO RB VB JJ NN NNS WDT VBP DT NN CC TO VB PRP IN NN NNS , PRP MD VB NNS , RB DT NN , TO VB NNS IN DT JJ NN . 
POS RB VBP TO VB JJ IN VBG NN NNS IN NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , IN DT NNS IN DT NN VBP IN NN VBZ RB DT NN NN PRP VBD PRP RP . CC IN NN NN EX VBP NNS PRP VBP DT VBP RB JJ . NNS VBP VBG TO VB RP WRB TO VB PRP$ JJ NN RB . PRP VBZ VBN . '' 
IN JJ JJ NN TO VB TO JJ NNS IN NN , DT NN CC DT NN NN VBD NNS NN TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NNP CC VB DT JJR NN IN NNS WDT VBD DT RB JJ NN . IN IN JJS CD NN NNS VBD TO VB JJ NNS IN NNP IN DT JJ NN , NNP , DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN DT NN , DT JJ NN RB VBN TO VB JJ NN , VBD NN IN PRP MD VB JJ TO VB NNS TO VB NNP IN NN IN DT NNP NNPS . IN NN VBD TO VB IN NNP , IN JJ JJ NN NNS VBG IN NN NNS IN JJ NNS , DT NNP NN VBD PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN VBD RB VB IN EX VBD JJ NNS JJ WDT MD VB RB IN JJ . TO VB NN WDT NN , NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC JJ NNS , VBD NN IN DT NN VBD RB VBG CD JJ NNS : NN CC NN : TO VB NNS WP VBP VBN DT NNS WDT VBP NN . 
IN DT NN PRP VBP RB , PRP VBP RB VBN TO NNS TO VB JJR , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD VBP VBD DT NNP , DT NN NN . DT NN PRP VBP RB VBZ PRP VBP TO VB DT JJ NN IN NN . '' JJS VB PRP$ NNS DT JJ , PRP VBD , VBG : NNS VBP RB RB VB TO VB PRP$ JJ NNS . PRP VBZ NN IN IN NN NN . '' PRP VBP IN DT JJ NN VBG IN NNP NNP WP VBD IN DT NNS POS NN NN JJ NNP . NN VBD VBG NN , '' VBD DT NN , WP VBD RB VB TO VB PRP$ NN IN PRP VBZ VBG DT NN NN IN PRP$ NNS . PRP VBD VBN , VBG NN , VBG JJ CC VBN . CC , PRP VBD , WRB PRP VBD VBG NN NN , NN CC NN , PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN CC NN . PRP VBD PRP DT NN CC NN TO VB NN CC VBG RP IN DT NN CC PRP VBD CD NNS . PRP VBD PRP NN VBD , PRP$ NN VBD , CC RB PRP$ NNS VBN RB PRP MD VB JJ NNS RB . 
CC NNS VBP IN NN IN JJS IN DT NNS : JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP : VBD RB JJ CC IN DT NNS VBD RB RB JJ . CC NN NNS JJ NN IN NNP . NN MD VB DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP IN DT JJ NNP NNP , VBZ DT NN POS NN MD VB JJ IN PRP VBP NNS IN JJ JJ NNS . '' JJ NNS VBP RB IN NN . CD JJ NN , VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBZ CD NNS VBZ CD TO CD : NN IN PRP MD VB VBN RB IN NN , NN CC NN NN IN IN TO CD NNS , CC NN IN PRP MD RB VB VBN . DT JJ NN NN VBZ IN NN IN NNP . IN DT NN , JJ CC JJR NNS VBP VBN TO VB RP PRP$ NNS . IN DT WP VBP TO VB DT NNP . NN CC NN PRP VBP JJ NN , DT JJ NN , VBN IN JJ NN , MD VB VBN , RB IN JJ NNS . CC IN NN , JJ NNS WP VBP PRP VBP NN MD VB DT NN TO VB VBN IN PRP . NNPS WP VBP PRP MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN NN CC IN DT JJ NNS IN NN MD VB IN NNP . NN VBZ IN PRP . 
MD VB VB PRP$ JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . NNP RB VBD IN DT NN VBD RB JJ IN DT NNS . IN DT , VBD RB JJ NN DT JJR NN TO VB IN VBG IN NN IN JJ NN NN VBN NNS IN NN . DT NN VBD IN , RB CC NN , IN JJR IN DT NN . PRP VBD DT IN DT JJ NNS IN NNS VBP VBG TO VB IN JJR CC RBR JJ NNS VBP JJ TO VB RB JJ NNS . RB , JJS IN DT NNS MD RB VB RB RB , IN CC IN NNS . IN NN , IN DT NN VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP IN CD , JJ NNS VBN JJ NN NNS VBD NN IN DT NN IN CD NNS IN NNS IN JJ NN NN . NN IN DT CD NNS IN DT NN WP VBD NNS VBD JJ CD NN RB , VBN IN DT NN IN DT VBN IN NN RB . CC DT WP VBD RBR JJ RB IN PRP$ JJ NN IN DT NN . 
NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN NN IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP , VBD IN DT NN NN VBZ VBG DT MD VB DT DT NNP . RB IN IN PRP$ NN IN JJ NN NNS VBP RB IN CC IN PRP VBP . '' DT NN VBZ DT NN JJ NN NNS , '' PRP VBD , IN DT NN '' '' JJ NN NNS POS NNS IN DT NN . '' NNP , VBZ NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP . IN WP VBZ , IN DT NNP NNS VBD , VBZ JJ NN TO VB IN DT JJ VBG , '' RB JJ JJ NN NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN NN . RB , PRP VBZ PDT DT JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD , WP VBD IN PRP VBZ VBN IN DT NN CC NN IN NNS WP VBP RB VB TO VB DT NN IN DT NNS TO VB NNS . NNP NNP POS NN IN DT NN IN NN NNS VBZ VBN IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP IN NNP NN WP VBD NN IN IN NN NNS CD NNS RB IN NN IN DT NN , NNP NNP NNP . NNS VBP RB VB EX VBZ DT JJ CC JJ NN IN VBG DT RB JJ JJ JJ VBG , IN CD VBD TO VB DT , '' PRP VBD . 
DT RBS JJ IN DT NNS , IN DT NNP NNP , VBD WRB JJ NN MD VB . IN DT JJ NN NN VBD IN NN , NN VBD RB VBN : RB , VBG MD VB VBN PRP . DT NNP NN RB VBD IN JJR IN DT NN IN VBG VBD VBN , EX VBD RB JJR NNS IN DT JJ NN . DT MD RB VB : IN CD JJ RB VBN NNS , EX MD VB DT JJ NN IN NNS IN DT . DT JJS JJ MD VB VBN DT NN NNS WDT VBD RB VBN TO VB NNS CC NN : DT NN VBN IN NN . DT NN VBZ PRP$ JJ NN IN NN IN DT RB JJ NN . NNP IN NN VBZ VBN IN WP VBZ NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNS : DT NNS RB VBP TO NN , DT VBP RB RBR RB , CC DT VBP RB VB IN DT ( CC MD RB VB ) . 
NNS VBP IN DT NN MD VB JJ NNS . VBG DT NN DT JJ NN MD VB PRP TO VB VBN IN NN TO VB . DT NNS , VB PRP JJ CC JJ , MD RB VB VBN IN NN IN JJ JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN . RB , JJ NNS VBP IN IN DT NN POS NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN , PRP MD VB WRB TO JJR VB DT NN WDT VBD PRP$ NNS . PRP MD VB JJ IN PRP IN DT NN NN IN NNS VBD VBN , IN PRP MD VB WP VBD IN DT NN IN NNS WRB PRP VBD , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . DT NNS , RB , VBP VBN IN JJ NNS PRP VBP VBN DT NN IN DT NN . DT VBG NN IN NNS IN JJ NNS VBP VBN IN NNS VB JJR NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT IN JJ CC JJ NNS . CC NNS VBP DT NNS VBP VBN RB RB TO VB JJ NNS . 
IN DT NN PRP VBD IN NN NN IN CD , JJ NN VBD JJ . JJR IN NN IN DT NNS VBG IN JJ NN IN NN VBD DT JJ NN NN : CC NN NN , NNS CC JJ NN . DT NN VBD VBN IN CD NNS IN NN VBG IN JJ NN NNS VBD NN DT VBD , IN JJ NNS , JJR IN DT VBN IN NNS . DT RB JJ CD NN VBN IN DT NNP IN NNP VBD JJ NN IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NN . CC NN VBZ DT NN CC NN IN NN CC VBZ NN TO VB NNS , '' DT NNS VBD . NNS RB VBP DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NN CC JJ NN , TO DT NN IN DT . '' DT NN VBD NN NN IN NNS VBN IN JJ NN VBZ VBN JJR NN IN DT NN , VBD JJR NNS TO DT NNP . CC VBD JJR NNS CC NNS . CC PRP VBD JJR CC RBR IN PRP$ NN IN DT IN DT NNS . CD NN , '' PRP VBZ RP , VBD RB JJ NN , CC RB PRP VBD DT NNS TO VB PRP . DT NN IN JJ NN VBD DT NNS , WP VBD JJ JJ NN NN TO DT NNS , TO VB NN . EX VBD RB NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP TO VB JJ NNS TO VB IN DT NN IN NN TO VB DT JJ NN . CC RB , RB RB RB IN PRP VBD , PRP DT VBD RB . DT NN VBD DT JJ NN , VBD CC RB VBD . 
VBG RP DT JJ NN IN NN NN NN , NNP . NNP NNP IN NNP VBD DT NN IN PRP MD VB NN TO VB DT NN IN JJ NN NN NN WDT VBZ VBG VBN IN NNS IN NNP NNP CC JJ NNS IN DT NN . DT NN POS NNS VBD IN JJ NNS VBD VBG NN WDT MD VB JJ NN NN NN , RB IN DT NN TO VB DT NN POS JJ NN IN NN NNS CC NN NNS IN VBG TO NNP CC JJ NNS WDT VBP VBG NN CC JJ NNS IN JJ NN . DT NN IN DT NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP , VBD PDT DT NN IN NNP , VBG PRP VBD PRP VB DT JJ NN IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB DT NN IN NN . '' PRP$ NN MD VB DT JJ NN WDT VBD PRP JJR TO VB NN NN NNS IN PRP VBD DT NN IN NN NN NNS , CC MD VB NN IN NN NNS VBN IN NN . NNP NNS MD VB NNS JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD . 
JJ NN IN DT NN , DT NNS VBP VBG RB NN . DT NNP . VBZ PRP DT NN IN JJ NNS . DT NN VBZ JJS IN PRP$ NNS VBP TO VB WRB PRP MD RB VB VBN RB DT CD NNS . PRP VBP TO VB DT . NNP NN VBZ RB DT JJ NN . PRP VBP JJ IN RB DT NN . RB , IN PRP VBP NNS TO VB DT NNP . RB RB DT NN , PRP VBP PRP VBP VBG PRP . IN PRP VBD NN TO VB RB IN CD NNS , PRP VBZ RB IN PRP VBP RB VB PRP IN PRP$ NN . DT VBZ VBN . WRB PRP VBD VBG NNP . NNS CD TO CD NNS RB , PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NN VBG NN TO VB CC VB DT NN NN . RB JJ NNS VBD VBG PRP . RB , PRP VBD IN DT NN IN PRP$ JJ . PRP VBP CD NN WP VBZ DT JJ NN . PRP VBZ VBD NN NN , CC RB PRP$ NN VBZ RB JJ . PRP VBZ CD . CC PRP VBZ VBN PRP CD NNS TO VB PRP IN IN VBG DT JJ NNP . 
CC IN RBR JJ NNS VBP JJ DT NNS , VBG RP DT NN IN PRP MD VB JJ NN IN JJ NNS , PRP VBP RB RBR JJ IN JJ NNS TO VB PRP$ NN NN CC NN NNS IN NN . NN MD RB VB TO NNS , WDT VBZ DT NN IN JJ NN . CC NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD RB RB VBN IN VBG NN NN IN NNS MD VB DT NN IN NN NNS CC NNS . NNP NNP , IN DT NN NN , VBD DT VBG NNS IN JJ NNS MD RB RB VB RP DT JJ NN IN NN NNS CC NNS . NNS MD RB VB JJ DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . DT NN IN NN NNS VBP RB VB IN JJR NNS VBP VBG JJ NN IN DT JJ NN : WDT VBZ , IN NN , DT NN . IN JJR NNS IN NN , NNS VBP VBG RP NN NNS CC NNS WDT MD VB VBN JJ IN JJ NNS . DT VBZ IN DT NN IN CD NN TO DT JJ VBP RB JJ . CC PRP VBZ VB IN DT JJ NN VBZ VBG . 
DT NN WDT NNP VBD TO DT NN , NNP VBD VBG IN WRB JJ NNS IN DT NN NN IN NN . NNP POS NN VBD TO VB DT NNS IN NNS , CC NNS , IN CD NNS IN NN NNS VBN JJ NNS RB IN DT JJ NN IN NNS . IN DT NNS VBN , NNP VBD , DT NNS MD VB DT NN IN JJ NN ( NNP ) , WDT VBZ NN IN NNS , CC DT NN IN NN NN ( NNP ) , WDT VBZ PRP TO DT NN , WRB PRP MD VB VBN RP . NNP POS NN VBD RB JJ : DT NN WDT JJ NNS VBN IN NN VBD VBN IN NNS IN JJ NN . NNP VBD TO VB TO DT NN IN NN IN VBG DT NN RB IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS IN NN . CC WRB NNP VBD PRP$ JJ NN , DT NNS VBD RB VB DT NN . WRB NNP VBD DT JJ NNS , PRP VBD DT JJ NN NN IN PRP . DT JJ NN , NNP VBD DT NN TO NNP , VBD IN PRP VBD VBN DT JJ NNS CC VBD NNP TO VB DT JJ NN . RB DT NN VBD JJ : PRP$ VBD TO VB RB IN NN , IN NNP VBD , RB IN PRP VBD VBN . 
NNP NNP POS NN , CD , WP NNP NNP MD RB VB , VBD NN IN NN IN CD NN IN CD NN , NNP NNP VBD TO DT NN NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBD IN IN DT NN , PRP VBD , IN DT NN VBD VBN . RB NNP NNP VBD VBN IN DT VBG NN . DT NN , WP PRP VBD PRP VBD VBD DT NN NN , VBD PRP DT NN IN NN IN DT NN NN CC VBD PRP TO VB IN DT NN NN . EX VBD DT NN IN DT NN , CC DT NN VBD RB VB NNP NNP TO VB IN DT VBD DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD . IN CD CC CD NNS , NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN NN IN PRP$ NNS TO VB PRP JJ IN DT NN VBD . CD NN IN DT NN CC VB WP DT JJ CD NNS VBP VBG TO VB IN , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
JJ NNS RB VBP JJ IN NNP NN , NNP NNP VBZ VBN : JJ JJ CC JJ NNS RB VBP TO VB DT NNS , PRP VBD . CC NNS VBD IN IN VBG DT NN NNS , NNS RB VBP PRP IN NN CC NN NN . CC VBP RB DT NN NN CC NNS , PRP VBP RB VB NN RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP , NNP , WP VBD NNP NNP CC VBZ VBN DT NN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . CD VBP PRP VBZ DT NN , RB DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP TO VB NNS DT NN IN DT NN . '' IN NNS IN DT JJ NN , JJS NNS VBP RB VBN IN DT JJ NN . DT NNS VBP DT JJ NN DT IN JJ NN , DT NN IN WDT NNS , RB NN NNS , VBP PRP VBP VBN IN JJ NNS CC VB DT NN TO DT JJ . NNS VBP VBN IN NNS IN DT MD VB VBN IN JJ NNS TO JJ NNS , RB JJ NN NNS CC JJ NNS . NNS VBP DT NN VBZ DT NN . 
NNS VBD PRP PRP VBD JJ WRB DT NN VBD JJ . IN NNS , WP$ JJ NNS VBP JJ TO VB RP NNP NNS , VBG IN NNS IN NNS IN DT NN IN NN , DT NNS POS JJ NNS MD VB VBG DT NNS . CC DT VBD RP TO VB JJ . DT NN VBD JJ NNS IN NNS IN PRP$ NN . RB NNS VBD DT NNS MD RB VB DT NNS POS NNS . CC IN RB VBD JJ , NNP NNP VBD . DT NNS VBD RB VBG JJ NNS IN NNS . DT NNS RB VBD PRP . DT JJ VBZ JJ IN JJ NNS , VBD NNP NNP , DT NN NN . DT NNS VBP JJ NNS IN NNS IN PRP$ NN CC VB DT NNS POS RBR CC RBR JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ NN NNS . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD DT JJ NN , IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NNP NN . VB DT NN VBZ IN DT NN , IN NNP . VBD IN NNS , PRP MD VB RP DT NNS CC RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . VB PRP VBZ RB , RB DT NN VBZ VBN CC DT NNS NNS . '' 
DT NN POS JJS NN IN NN NNS VBD PRP$ JJ NN RB NN IN VBG IN DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NN . NNS RB RB VBN JJ NNS VBG IN JJ NN NNS VBD TO VB JJR NN CC NN NN IN JJR NNS VBD , RB IN JJR NNS MD VB RB RB JJ . DT JJ VBP RB VBN IN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS , DT NNS VBP . DT NN , DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN TO VB DT JJ NN . DT NN MD VB IN NNS IN DT NN CC JJ NNS CC MD RB VB JJ NNS IN NN CC PRP$ NNS , NNS IN NN NN CC NNS TO VB NNS IN NNP NN NNS . DT NN RB VBD RBR JJ NNS , IN VBG NNS IN NNS CC VBG NN IN PRP$ NNS . '' VBP NN NNS , '' NNP NNP NN NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN , VBD IN DT NN . CC VB VBN VBG DT NN VBN IN NN NNS . '' 
NNS : NNP NNP , NNP : NN NN IN NN IN NNP . CC NN IN JJ NNP : CD NN POS NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP . '' : NNP NNP NNP , NNP . : VBG NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP CC NN IN DT NNP NNP IN CD IN POS NNP . NNP NNP IN NNP . '' PRP VBZ DT NNP NNP NNP . : NNP NNP : NN , RBS RB , IN UH . WP IN PRP VBP IN DT NNP IN PRP$ NNS . '' NNP NNP , NNS IN NNP NNP NNP , CD IN DT JJ TO VB DT JJ NN , VBP IN VBG NN NN MD RB VB DT NN IN NN . WRB VBP PRP VBG TO VB NN . NNP NNP : DT NN IN PRP VBP VBN IN VBZ RB IN VBG NN IN NNS VBP JJ . PRP VBP RB VB IN NN NN IN DT JJ NN . DT JJ NN VBZ NN NN . PDT DT NNS IN DT NN VBP IN DT NNS PRP VBP VBG CC DT NNS IN NNS PRP MD VB VBG MD VB NN NN . IN PRP MD VB NN NN , CC PRP RB VBP TO VB NN NN , RB VB PRP . DT VBZ DT NN NN . 
NNP IN JJ CC JJ NN VBD RB RB JJ IN NNS IN JJ NNS : IN DT NNS IN NNP CD , WRB PRP RB VBD TO NNPS WRB JJ PRP VBD . DT NN WDT MD ( CC MD RB ) VB VBN IN JJ NN , DT NN IN NN MD VB IN DT NN IN DT NN IN NNS , DT NN IN VBG DT NN NN CC JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NN MD : VB DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NNS CC NN IN NNP , NNP JJ VBZ VBN JJ . '' RB VBP NNS IN DT NN POS NN TO VB PRP IN NNS VBP IN DT NN IN NNS , VBG WP VBZ VBN VBN , WP VBZ VBG VBN , WRB NNS VBP , WP MD VB VBN TO VB PRP : CC WRB RB . NNS CC NNP NNP IN NN CC NN VBP VBG TO VB NN IN JJ NNS IN JJ JJ NNS IN NN CC NN , NNS VBP VBG TO VB JJ NNS . 
NNP , WDT MD VB DT NN IN VBG DT NN POS JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , VBZ JJ NN IN DT WP VBP PRP IN JJ TO VB DT JJ JJ NN IN NN IN NN CC WP VBP PRP JJ TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NN NN . CC WDT PRP VBZ NNS IN DT JJR NNS , VBG NNS VBP RB RB RB JJ TO VB VBG IN JJ NN NNS . IN VBG , NNS VBP DT NN IN DT NN POS NN CC VB PRP IN JJ NN VBN IN DT NN POS NN . PRP RB VBP DT NN TO VB DT NN CC VB DT NN IN DT NN POS NN , WRB IN NN PRP MD VB IN DT NN CC RB DT JJ NN . DT NN VBZ , DT NN MD VB JJ IN DT NN IN VBG TO VB . NNP , DT JJ JJ NN , VBD VBN IN CD RB IN NNS IN VBG NNS VBD VBN IN NNS , NNS CC JJ JJ NNS . IN NNS VBP VBN IN RB , RB CD NN IN DT VBN NNS VBP VBN RB . 
DT NNS , VBN IN NNS : RB VBP CC RB JJ NN : VBP DT RBR JJ NN . DT NNS VBP PRP MD VB PRP$ JJ NNS IN VBG DT JJ JJ IN NN , CC JJ NNS VBP IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN WDT MD VB VBN IN NNS VBZ RB RB JJR IN CD TO CD NNS DT NN , DT RB JJ NN . CC JJ NNS IN NN CC VB NN MD VB CD TO CD NNS IN NNS . IN DT NNS VBP TO DT JJ NNS IN JJ NNS NN IN , DT NN VBZ IN PRP , RB , MD VB JJ NN CC NN NN . VBN NNS NN PRP DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS VBP JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC IN NN VBZ JJ VBZ RB VB PRP VBZ JJ . '' DT NNS WDT VBP VBN VBN IN JJ NNS VBP IN PRP VBP JJ JJR IN NNS IN VBG JJ NNS . 
CC NNS , IN NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD PRP VBD RB VBN . NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN DT JJ NNS VBN , VBG NNS IN JJ NNS CC VBG DT JJ NN VBN NN TO VB PRP , MD VB JJ NNS . VB RB VBP RB VB DT NN TO VB RB JJ , '' PRP VBD . JJ NN IN DT NN NN VBZ RB DT JJ NN JJR IN PRP VBD PRP VBD , CC PRP VBP EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS . DT VBZ RB VB PRP$ NN . '' DT NNS VBD PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN NN IN JJ NNS VBN IN NNS , IN PRP$ NNS IN WRB JJ NN PRP VBD . CC , NNP NNP VBD , PRP NNS IN NN . CC MD VB DT JJ NN , CC PRP RB MD VB DT NN NN , '' PRP VBD . CC JJ VBZ TO VB DT NN CC VBZ DT NN , '' VBP RB RB . '' '' 
IN IN DT NN NN IN DT NN NN WDT VBD PRP , NNP POS NN VBD VBN JJ IN NNS . RB , IN NNP CD , CD , DT NN VBN , JJ VBG VBN IN NNP CC NNP NNP NNP '' VBD IN DT JJ NN NN , CC NNP VBD DT NN . PRP RB VBD NN NNS VBD . CD NN VBD NNS VBP RB RB IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBZ CD IN DT NNS WDT VBD NNS RB RBR JJ CC JJ '' IN VBG NN NNS IN NN NNS IN NNS . DT NN VBD TO VB DT NN NN , RB VB DT NN IN NNS IN RB DT JJ NNS CC JJ JJ NN NNS . DT NNS MD RB VB VBN TO VB NNS CC NNS WDT MD VB DT NN POS . CC JJ NN VBZ RB VB IN DT NN IN NNS , CC RB DT NN IN NNS . NNP RB VBD NN TO NNS IN NNS MD VB NNS . 
NNP . WP VBD PRP$ JJ NN . DT . PRP VBD NN . DT VBD RB CD NNS RB . PRP VBZ JJ , VBZ RB PRP . PRP VBD VBN PRP$ NN VBG IN NN NN , CC WP VBP PRP VB . CC PRP VBZ RB JJ . IN PRP$ NN POS NN , PRP RB VBD PRP VBD IN NN . IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBD VBN IN NN CD . PRP VBD VBN IN VBG IN PRP$ NN JJ NN , PRP$ NNP . NN . PRP VBD VBG DT RB NN , CC PRP VBD NN IN JJ NN . PRP VBD , WP VBZ PRP$ NNP . IN . '' NNS VBP RB VBD CD IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBD , '' MD VB JJR . '' PRP VBD DT NN , CC PRP$ NNS VBD RB JJ . IN PRP VBD TO VB IN WP PRP VBD TO VB IN . NNP . WRB VBD PRP VB PRP$ NN NN . NNP . NNP JJ NN . DT NN IN VBG NN VBZ IN PRP VBZ PRP RB RB JJR JJ IN PRP$ NN . 
RB VBD JJ NNS . IN RB , PRP VBP VBN TO VB IN DT JJ NN NN . CC RB , VBG DT NN IN NN WP VBZ VBN DT NN IN NN , DT NN VBZ JJ NN . EX VBP RB RB CD CD NN NNS IN DT NN , RB IN CD CD IN CD CC CD CD IN CD . JJ VBP IN NNS CC NNS , CC PRP VBZ VBG JJ TO VB PRP$ NNS CC JJ NNS IN PRP$ NNS . RB , JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN VBP VBG TO VB RP RB WP DT NN NNS VBP , WRB PRP MD VB VBN , WP PRP$ JJ NNS VBP , CC WP PRP$ JJ CC JJ NNS VBP . DT NNS , CC PRP$ NNS , VBP TO VB WP TO VB WRB DT JJ NN VBZ RB . WRB MD PRP VB VBN , CC WRB RB . WP VBP DT NNS IN NN CC NN NNS CC NNS RB . 
DT JJ NN NN MD VB RB RBR , CC JJ JJR , PRP VBD . MD NN VBZ IN PRP RB VBP RB VB . '' DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS MD VB DT VBG IN DT JJ NN : JJS VBD RB JJ JJR , CC JJR , NN , CC VBD RB . CC VBG IN PRP$ NNS , PRP VBZ RB JJ IN NNS IN DT NNS TO VB JJ NNS CC NNS TO VB JJ JJ NN . IN NN , PRP MD VB JJ TO VB DT NN CD IN DT NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP , DT JJ NN CC NN NN IN NNP , NNP , WP VBD CD NNS CC VBZ VBN PRP RP IN CD NNS . IN CD NNS CD NNS JJ CC CD NNS , PRP VBD VBN IN JJ NN , CC VBD TO CD IN PRP VBD CC VBD VBN . PRP VBD JJ IN NN , PRP VBD , CC VBP RB RB VB IN NN VBD NNS . '' 
WDT VBD TO VB VBN IN IN NNS WDT VBD RB RB TO CD JJ NN NN MD RB VB VBN IN VBG TO DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN NNP . NNP TO DT JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN , VBN IN NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBN VBG DT NN IN JJR IN CD NNS . VBG TO PRP$ NN , PRP VBZ RB JJ IN NN WDT VBZ JJ . RB , DT NNS VBN IN JJ NN IN DT VBN NN IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN CC DT NN POS NN TO VB JJ NNS . DT NN MD VB VBN IN NN CC NN NN : IN NN , NN CC NN NNS : IN DT NN CC NN IN JJ JJ NNS : IN NN NN CC JJ NN : CC IN DT VBG IN IN JJ NNS TO DT NN IN PRP VBP DT NN . 
DT JJ NN IN VBG IN NNS , CC IN JJ NNS DT RBS JJ , VBZ VBN IN NNS , WDT VBP NN . CC NNS VBP NNS VBP RB VBN TO VB NNS IN PRP VBP IN PRP VBZ JJ TO VB NN IN DT JJ NN . IN NN , DT NN POS NN TO VB NN NN NNS IN NN VBZ VBN RB IN PRP$ NNS , IN NN IN DT NN PRP MD VB JJ NN NNS . CC IN DT NNS , NNS VBP RB VB . CC IN DT NN IN JJ NNS VBZ VBG , RB VBP DT NNS TO VB PRP . DT VBP VBN RB VBN IN DT NN IN NNP . NNS VBP VBN DT NN IN WRB NNS VBP CC WRB TO VB NNS TO VB PRP . CC DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN MD RB VB VBN IN NNS : IN VBD VBN IN DT NNP NN : VBG NNS IN VBG DT JJ NN . 
NN , DT VBN NN IN NN NNS VBP JJ NN NNS , CC RB CD NN IN PRP VBP IN NNS IN CD NNS CC JJR : WRB IN NN IN DT NNS NN . NNP NNP NNP VBZ PRP$ JJ JJ NN IN NNP , NNP , CC VBZ VBN DT NN IN NN NNS IN NNP CC JJ NNS . VBG NNS CC NN IN JJ NN NNS , NNP NNP VBD , MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . PRP MD RB VB DT NNS IN NN IN DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . JJ NN NNS MD RB VB DT JJ NN , IN DT JJ NN , CC WRB MD PRP VB DT NN IN PRP VBP RB VB DT IN DT NNS . '' NNPS VBP RB RB CD NN IN DT NNS IN JJ NN NNS : DT JJ NN VBZ RB TO JJ CC JJ NNS IN , IN CD , PRP VBP VBG IN JJR JJ NNS , CC VBD NN VBZ DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNS , VBG TO DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN . '' NNS VBP PDT DT NNS , CC NNS VBP JJS IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP VBD DT JJ NN NN NN NN IN DT NNP NN IN CD TO CD . CC NNS VBP RB JJ . '' 
IN CD JJ NN , VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP JJ NN , DT JJ CC JJ NNS VBD DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN . IN DT NN NN RB DT NN , PRP VBP CD NN JJR IN DT WP VBD DT NN . CC PRP VBZ RB VBN IN VBG DT NN DT NN MD VB TO JJ JJ NN . IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNS VBD DT NN POS JJ , VBG IN PRP VBD JJ TO VB JJR NNS IN NNS IN NNS VBG IN DT NN VBD NN NN CC JJ NN . NNP , VBN IN NNP , NNP , MD RB VB $ CD CD IN NNP CC MD VB JJ TO VB RP TO $ CD CD JJR IN DT NN VBZ JJ NNS CC NNS JJ NNS NNS . NNP MD RB VB NNS IN NNS CC MD VB JJ TO VB NN DT NN IN DT NNP NNPS . 
VBG RB , DT NNS VBD , MD VB DT NN IN DT NN CC JJR NN , DT JJ NN NN . CC JJ NN VBG PRP$ CD VBZ JJ , CC DT VBZ JJ TO RB VB DT NN IN NNS IN NNS CC NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP , CC CD IN DT NN POS NNS . CD JJS NN TO RB VB PRP DT VBZ TO VB RP VBG . '' NNP , IN NN , VBZ RB DT JJ NN IN VBG NN IN DT NN . NNP VBZ DT JJ NN , DT NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS VBN IN NN IN NNS , NN , RB NN PRP . RB , IN NNS IN DT NN , NNS VBP VBG NN IN VBG JJ NNP , RB RB JJ CC JJ NNS , NN , NN CC NNS . IN CD , NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP , VBD IN NN WDT VBD VBN CD NN JJR NNS VBD IN CD NN JJR IN PRP$ JJ NN NNS . DT VBG NN VBD RB RBR RB JJ CC RB JJR NN TO DT NNS IN JJ NN . 
IN NNS WP VBP CC VBP RB RBR RB JJ NNS , NNS MD VB TO JJ NN NNS , WDT VBP VBN IN DT NN CC MD VB JJ NN NN NN IN DT NN IN NNS , NNS WDT MD VB VBN IN DT NN , CC NNS WDT MD VB VBN IN DT NN . '' VBZ DT NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP POS NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP IN NNP . VBZ PRP VBZ CD JJR NN TO VB NN . '' JJ NNS VBP PRP VBP VBN TO VB VBG NN NN , VBG IN DT NNS VBD IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP NN VBD JJ CC IN DT JJR NN IN NN VBD VBN IN DT NNS VBG NNS . DT NNS VBP DT NN VBZ JJ NNS IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . IN DT JJ NN NNS IN NN NN NN VBZ DT NN , NNS NNS CC JJ NN , VBZ RP NNS , CC NNS DT JJ NN IN NN , NNS RB VBP PRP VBP DT NNS . PRP RB VBP DT NNS VBP PRP VB JJR RB CC VB NNS JJR . 
IN NN RB , DT NN IN DT NN NNP IN DT NN JJ NN VBD IN DT NN WDT JJ NNS RB VBP RP TO VB JJ NN NNS IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ NN TO VB PRP IN NN . IN PRP VBP DT NNS CC NNS IN NN , DT NN JJ VBZ TO VB VBN TO DT NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP . WDT VBZ RB VB IN CD MD RB VB DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ VB PRP DT NN IN JJ NNS MD VB RP RB RB IN CD TO CD NNS IN DT NN . '' CC IN DT NN IN NNP POS NN , JJ NNS CC NNS VBP VBG TO VB WP TO VB RB . NNP POS NN , DT JJ NN TO DT NN VBN JJ NNS , VBD VBN IN JJR IN CD CD NNS IN , IN JJ NNS , NN , NN CC DT JJ NN IN NN NN . 
NNS RB VBD IN NNS WP VBP NNP . POS VBP DT JJR . IN DT NN VBN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS RB VBD CD NNS IN JJ NN TO NNS CC NNP POS . NNS MD VB NNS CC NNS CC RB JJ NNS . PDT DT NNP . NNS VBD JJ NNS , CC DT NN NNS , IN DT NN , VBD RP IN RBR JJ NN : JJR NN NNS , JJ NN , NN CC JJ NNS RB RB IN JJR NN . CC IN PRP VBD JJR IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBD DT JJR IN DT JJ NNS . IN DT JJ NNS , JJS NNS IN DT NN VBD VBG JJR CC VBD RB IN NN . JJ IN DT NN VBD TO VB DT NN CC VBD VBG IN PRP . '' VBP TO VB NN NNS CC JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD NN VBD JJR CC RB RB VBN . '' 
CD NN EX VBP DT JJ NNS IN DT NNS IN NNS VBZ IN PRP$ NNS VBP RB VBN RB VBN WRB NNS IN NN NN . IN CD , DT NNP NN NNP NNP VBD PRP VBN IN DT JJ NN , IN PRP$ NN NNP NNP NNP VBD RB VBN IN VBG NNS . NNP NNP VBD PRP$ RB . CC PRP VBD IN VBG NN , CC IN CD , PRP VBD DT NN NN IN DT NN TO DT NNP NNPS IN NNP . '' JJR NN MD VB VBN TO VB JJ NN IN DT NN IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN TO VB CC JJS DT IN DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . CC RB VBP IN PRP VBD RB JJ TO VB NNP NNP POS NNS CC TO VB NNS IN JJ NN . NNP , PRP VBD RB JJ TO VB DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS CC PRP$ NNS . '' IN PRP VBD RP , IN DT JJ , JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD VBN IN CD . NNP NNP , WP VBZ RB NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD IN NN VBD VBN . '' 
DT NN VBD CD NN NNS , CD TO CD CC CD TO CD . IN NNS , DT NN VBD , JJ NN VBD IN DT CD NNS , IN VBD DT NN CC NN IN JJ NN , DT NN WDT VBD IN NN , NN , NN , CC JJ NNS . IN NNS VBZ CD TO CD , DT NN IN JJ NNS , JJ NNS VBN TO VB TO VB PRP IN NN , VBD CD NN , CC NNS IN JJ NN VBD DT NN IN RB CD NN . DT JJS NNS VBD RB NN RB RB . NNP VBZ CD TO CD VBN RB DT CD NN NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT CD NN NNS , CC NNS VBZ CD TO CD VBD DT CD NN NN IN DT NN IN NNS . DT NN VBD RB JJ IN JJ , JJ NNS , WP VBD PRP$ JJ NN IN NNS VBN IN JJR IN CD NN , CC IN NNS VBG IN DT JJ NN NN , WP$ JJ NN IN NNS VBN IN JJR IN CD NN . 
IN DT NN , PRP VBD WP VBD IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP . IN DT JJ CD NNS IN NNP CD , CD IN DT CD NNS IN NNP VBD CC VBD RB VBN IN DT NN NN . NNP VBD EX RB , VBN NN TO VB RP DT NN CC IN CD NNS IN VBG IN JJ NN VBD IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN . PRP CC DT NNS RB VBD CD JJR NNS CC VB RP NNS IN PRP$ NNS CC JJ NNS , VBG PRP JJ IN JJ NN VBD IN NN NNS . NNP IN NNP , NNP VBD DT NN IN DT NN NN IN VBN NN NNS : DT JJ NN IN VBG JJ NN : CC JJ NN , NNS CC RB NNS , WDT VBP DT JJ NN TO JJ NN . NN VBD . IN DT NN VBD RB IN DT , PRP VBD JJ . NNP VBD NNP POS NNP NN . PRP VBD RP , VBD TO JJ NN CC VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNP NNP . IN PRP$ JJ NN PRP VBD DT IN DT NN , VBN NN NN , VBD JJ NNS , VBD DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP ( PRP VBD PRP CD NNS ) CC VBD NN IN NNP NNP . CC PRP RB VBD IN DT CD NN IN PRP$ NN IN PRP VBD . 
PRP MD VB RB IN NNP NNP VBD RB IN DT NN IN NN CC NN . IN NNS IN DT NN , IN VBN NNS TO NNS CC NN NNS , PRP$ NN VBD CC DT NN IN PRP$ NN VBD VBN . CC DT CD NN . NNP NNP NNP NNP TO VB NNP NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN . DT NN POS NN VBZ TO VB RB DT JJ NNS : TO VB RB TO DT NN CC RB VB DT NN . NNP NN : VB DT NN NN IN PRP . DT VBD NN VBD RB JJ IN NNP NNP NN NNP POS NN IN DT JJ NN VBD IN NNP NNP IN DT NN IN NNP CD , VBG PRP$ JJ NN IN DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP IN NNP . NNP NNP , DT JJ CD , NN IN DT NNS POS JJ NNS NN , VBD IN DT JJ NN NN , VBG IN DT JJ NNS CC VBG IN DT JJS NNS IN NN . CC RB PRP VBD TO VB IN VBG PRP RB TO VB IN NNS . 
DT NN NN NNS IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP VBP VBN DT JJ NN IN IN JJ NNS , NNS IN NNS WP VBD VBG NN NN VBD IN DT NN MD VB DT NN POS NN IN NN NN IN RB JJ IN CD TO CD NN . RB , IN DT CD POS CC CD POS , JJ NNS VBD JJ NNS TO VB VB PRP$ NNS POS NN IN NN NN . DT NN VBZ IN NN NN IN NN RB MD VB JJR NN NNS : CC JJR NNS : IN NN IN RB VBZ NN . DT NNS CC NNS VBP VBG VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP , WDT VBZ TO VB IN CD . CC DT JJ NN VBN IN NN POS NNP NNP NNP VBZ NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ IN NN MD VB DT JJ NN . DT JJ NN VBD CD JJ NNS IN NN . DT VBD VBN NN CC NN , DT VBD VBN NN RB CC DT NN VBD VBN DT NNS . 
RB , JJS NN NN VBZ VBN IN NNP , NN NNP CC NNP CC NN . PRP VBZ JJ IN PRP MD VB PRP IN DT NN TO VB NNS IN JJ NNS . DT VBZ NNP , VBN IN DT NN IN NN , IN NNS RB VBP RB RB VB IN PRP MD VB DT JJ NN CC RB DT JJ CD . NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN NN IN NN CC NN IN NNP , VBD IN PRP VBD JJ NN NN '' IN PRP$ NN MD VB DT NN IN NNP CC IN PRP VBD RB VB TO VB RB , IN PRP VBD IN DT NN MD RB VB DT JJ NN . CC VBP NN IN DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . '' DT NN , PRP MD RB VB DT NN IN PRP MD VB . '' EX VBP JJ NNS DT NN IN JJ NNS VBZ VBN IN DT IN JJ NNS . NNS VBP JJ NN NNS . PRP VBP DT NN IN JJ NNS CC NNS WDT MD VB VBN TO VB DT NN . JJ IN DT NNS CC NNS VBP JJ RB IN PRP$ JJ NNS IN PRP MD VB VBN IN VBG DT NN VBG DT NN . 
IN DT NN , NNP . CC DT NNP POS NNP VBP VBN NNP NNP POS NN , IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD IN NNS , TO NNP NNP , DT NNP NN . NNS 
POS NN VBZ VBN TO VB , CC MD VB NNS JJ IN DT NN IN VBG PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP , CC DT NN IN DT NN . CC VBP VB NNS , CC RB DT NN IN NN NN . '' NNP WP MD VB IN NN IN DT NN IN NNS MD VB JJ , IN NNS IN JJ NN , TO NNS WP MD VB JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD . CC JJ NN NNS WDT VBZ VBP JJ NNS . NNP , PRP VBD , EX VBZ RB DT NN NNPS MD VB JJ DT JJ NN NN IN JJ NNS . VBP PRP RB VBD TO VB IN NN IN DT NN . '' NNP NNP VBD . MD VBD PRP RB , IN PRP VBD JJ IN WP DT NN IN PRP$ NN VBD , CC PRP MD RB RB VB IN DT NN IN DT NN . '' RB NNS WP VBP JJ NN MD VB NN IN NNS VBP IN JJ NNPS VBP JJ TO VB TO PDT DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN IN DT NN VBZ DT NN IN PRP$ NNS , NNS IN TO VB . IN NN NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN POS NNP , RB IN DT NN WDT VBZ IN VBG NNS VBZ IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN , NNS VBP , MD TO DT NN VB VBN , RB VBD . 
RB IN NNS IN JJ NNS MD RB VB NNS IN NNS TO DT JJS NN , IN NNS CC NNS EX VBP NN NNS CC NN IN NNS . NNS VBP VBN TO VB NNS , VBG PRP MD RB VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ , RB JJ , NN . NNP NNS VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBP DT NNS POS NN . DT NN IN NNS VBN IN CD NN IN RB CD NNS , TO DT NN IN CD CD IN CD IN DT NN IN CD CD NNS IN CD , DT RBS JJ NN IN WDT NNS VBP JJ . JJ NNS VBP JJ NNS IN DT NN . DT NNP NNP TO NNP NNP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN NNS RB RB IN NNS VBG JJ NN CC JJ NN . CC NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP WP VBD NN NNS , VBD DT NN VBZ RB JJR NN NN . IN PRP VBZ JJ , PRP VBD , IN JJR NNS VBP VBG PRP$ NNS , JJS IN DT VBG NNS VBP IN PRP$ JJ CD POS CC JJR IN PRP VBP VBG NN . 
DT VBD DT JJ NN NNP NNP , CD IN NNP NNP POS NNS , VBD RB . PRP VBD VBN , PRP VBD , IN PRP RB VBD RB VB PRP$ JJ NNP NNP NN , CC PRP VBD DT NN IN NNP WP MD VB PRP DT NN TO DT NN NN . NNP NNP , WP VBZ CD , VBD NN NN IN DT NN RB CC VBD VBN IN PRP$ NNP NNP NN . RB PRP VBD RP PRP VBD NN NN . CC VBD RB VBG RB , '' PRP VBD . NN VBD VBN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN . '' CD NN , PRP VBD , PRP VBD DT JJ NN TO VB IN DT NN CC VBD . IN PRP VBD RB , PRP VBD , '' NN RB VBD TO VB RP IN PRP VBD RB JJ . '' PRP VBD TO NNP NNP CC RB VBD . PRP VBD CD JJ NN NNS , WDT NNP NNP VBD , CC VBZ VBG IN RB CD NN , CC VBG RB . 
PRP MD VB IN NNP MD VB VBN VBN TO VB IN NN IN PRP$ NN , CC IN NN IN DT NN . CC PRP MD RB IN RB VBZ IN PRP VBD RBR TO VB PRP$ NN IN IN RB RB IN PRP MD . WP MD VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN , CC DT NN IN PRP VBD RP VBG . NN VBD PRP VBD JJ TO VB NN NN IN DT JJ NN RB IN IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN . WRB PRP$ NN VBD VBG , PRP VBD RB VB PRP RP IN NN IN PRP VBD RB VB PRP TO VB PRP VBD VBN RP IN PRP . CC IN JJ NN , EX VBD DT NN TO VB NN TO VB . DT VBD WRB NNP VBD JJ TO VB NN IN DT JJ CD NNS IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN VBG PRP$ NN CC VBG PRP : PRP MD VB IN NN CC VB DT JJ NN IN NN NNS VBP IN NNP POS NN NN CC RB VB PRP TO VB IN PRP MD VB RB . 
DT NNP NN RB VBD RB JJ NNS . DT NN , WDT VBD RB CD NNS IN JJ NN NN IN CD IN CD , VBD IN NNS VBG NNP VBD DT CD NN JJR NN NN IN DT NNS IN DT VBG NN NNS , DT JJ NN IN NN NN NN . NNS IN NN NNS CC JJ JJ NNS RB VBD CD NN JJR IN NNS VBG NNP . CC NNP VBD TO VB DT RB JJ NN IN NNS IN JJ JJ NN NN , DT JJ NN IN DT NN . 
DT JJ NNS VBD JJ TO VB VBN IN IN NNS VBG JJ NNP NNS , WP VBP VBN JJR IN CD NNS IN NNP . NNS VBP DT JJ NNS RB VBP DT RB JJR NN IN NNS WP VBD NNP , IN DT VBD IN IN RB , RB RBR IN DT NN CC DT NN IN NN VBZ VBN DT NN , DT NNS IN JJ NNS VBP JJ . CD NN WDT VBZ JJ IN DT JJS NN VBZ IN DT JJ NNS VBN IN NNP NN IN WP$ NNS CC NN NNS VBD VBN , CC WRB . DT JJ NN IN NN , VBN NNP , VBD CD NNS , NN IN WP VBD NNP CC PDT DT NN IN CD NNS . DT NN VBD VBN TO VB IN NNP MD VB JJ NN NNS , CC IN NN VBD IN DT NN NNS IN NNP , DT NN VBD RB VBN TO VB JJ NN . DT NNS VBD IN NNP NNS VBD RB DT NN IN DT NN NN , NN , JJ NN NN CC NN IN DT NN NN IN DT WP VBD DT NN . PRP VBD WRB NNP VBD DT JJ NNS IN DT NN IN NNP CD IN PRP VBD NNP IN DT NN NN CC DT NN IN DT NNS VBD JJ . DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP VBD DT NNS VBP IN NNP CD CC IN NN DT JJ NN . 
NNP NNP VBD DT NN NN WDT VBD PRP VBD NN NNS . CC IN PRP VBG NNS , PRP MD VB VBN RB TO VB IN DT NN PRP VBD VBG NN CC DT JJ NN . IN NN , JJ NN VBZ IN NN . NNS VBP DT JJS NN IN VBG DT NN CC NN IN DT NN VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN . NN IN , EX VBZ RB JJ PRP MD VB '' CC VB DT NN VB PRP$ NN , VBD NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN NNP NNP POS NNP . NNP NNS VBP JJ CC DT NN , IN DT NNS VBP IN VBG JJ NN . CD NN IN DT NN IN DT NN NN IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NNS VBP RB VBN VBN IN TO WP VBZ DT JJ NN , WDT VBZ RB IN DT NN NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN POS NN . PRP VBZ JJ , CC EX VBZ DT NN IN DT NNS DT NNS VBP MD VB NNS IN DT NNS CC RB DT NN IN DT NN IN VBZ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP IN DT NNP . 
JJ NN VBZ RB RB TO VB NNS JJ JJR , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP . PRP VBZ TO VB RB IN DT JJ NNS IN DT JJ VBZ NN . '' IN DT NN IN NNS , NNP NNP , IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP , VBZ VBN JJ NNS WDT VBP CD NNS RBR IN JJ , RB IN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBN NN . DT NN VBZ DT NN IN DT NN IN NNS JJ TO DT NN IN NNS WDT VBZ TO CD JJ NNS , NN CC DT JJ NN NN CD CC NNP . NNP VBZ JJ IN DT NN TO VB VB IN NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS . NNP NNP CC JJ NNS VBP IN NN NNS IN JJ NNS MD VB VBN '' IN VBG IN NNS VBP RB JJ , RB WRB PRP VBP . IN PRP$ NN NN RB VBN IN JJ , DT NN NN VBZ RB JJR : CC RB VBZ DT NN . 
PRP VBZ RB VB VB DT JJ IN IN DT NNS WRB JJ NN VBD DT NN IN DT RBS JJ CC RB JJ . DT NNPS , NNP CC NNP NNP , WDT VBD PRP$ JJ JJ JJ NN , VBD TO VB DT JJ NN IN NNS , NNS , NNS , NN NNS CC NN NN NNS . JJ JJ NNS VBP RB RB IN NN IN NNS PRP VBP VBN CC VBP VBN VBN TO VB . RB JJ VB DT NN IN DT NN NN VBG JJ , VBG JJ NNS . '' VBP EX VBP RB JJ NNS IN DT VBD , '' VBD NNP NNP , IN NNP . '' VB DT NNS WP VBD RP IN DT NN NN , CC JJS IN PRP VBP RB VBG JJ NNS IN NNS . CC PRP VBP RB VBG . '' TO VB NN , NN NNS VBP CD JJ NNS : NN NN CC NNS CC VB RP PRP$ NNS CC VB NN RB . DT NN NN MD VB JJ , CC NNP , NNP CC NNP NNPS VBP NNS IN NNS , CC NNP VBZ NNS IN DT NNS IN JJ NNS . DT CD NNS IN WRB DT NNS VBP , CC PDT DT NNS VBP PRP$ NNS IN DT NN MD RB VB DT JJ NN IN PRP . 
PRP VBZ DT NN IN DT JJ NN , JJ NNP CC DT JJ NNP '' ( NNP NNP NNP ) , VBG JJ NNS IN NNS CC NN NNS . DT JJ NN VBZ IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN VBP JJ TO RB VB DT JJ NNS IN NNP , CC IN NNP MD RB VB . DT JJS NN , WDT VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN CC DT JJ NN IN NN NN IN DT JJ NN , VBZ IN DT JJ JJ NN MD VB $ CD CD . NNS RB VBN EX VBD VBG TO VB JJ NNS IN JJ NN , CC PRP VBP RB VBG IN , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT JJS NNS MD VB NNS , WP MD VB RBR VBG NNS CC NNS WDT VBP RBR , NNS TO DT JJ NN IN DT NN . NNS MD VB RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC MD VB JJR TO VB NN IN NNP , CC NNP NNP MD VB JJ NNS RBR . PRP MD VB JJ NNS IN NNP NN IN DT JJ NN . '' 
IN IN DT NN NN , NNP CC PRP$ NNS RB VBD DT JJ NN IN DT VBZ TO NN CC NN . CC IN CD , WRB NNP , CD , VBD IN DT NN NN , PRP$ JJ NN VBD IN PRP$ NN IN , VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN : NN NNS . PRP$ NNS VBD CD NNP NNS , NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP , WP VBD DT JJ NN CD TO NNP . '' JJ NN VBZ JJ , CC PRP VBZ JJ WRB CD VBZ DT NN RB RB IN DT NN IN NN , '' NNP CC NNP VBD PRP$ NNS . RBR RB , IN NN , DT JJ NN , IN JJS IN NN NN , VBZ VBN TO VB NNS JJ IN NN . CC DT VBD WP VBD TO DT NNP POS NNP NNP , DT NN VBN IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP VBG JJ NN TO JJ NNS . CD NNS RB , DT NNS WP VBD JJ NN VBD DT JJ NNS IN NN NN , NN NN CC NN NN IN DT WP$ NNS VBD JJ . 
IN NN , DT NNP NNP POS NNP , DT VBG NN IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP , VBN IN RB JJR NNS , VBZ RB VB NN NNS . PRP MD VB DT JJ VBG NN IN NNP CD . IN NNP , NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP , VBD DT NNP NNP TO DT NNP , DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN CC NN VBN IN VBG VBG . NNS VBP DT NN NN , IN PRP VBP RB IN JJ NNS CC NNS , CC PRP DT VBP VBG VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP NN VBZ DT NN TO NN IN NN , CC NN IN NN , VBZ RB RB JJ . NN CC NN NN TO VB VBN , RB , CC VBG VBZ RB JJ TO NN , IN PRP VBP NNS CC IN NN CC NN . '' IN DT NN IN NN CC NN , NNP NNP VBZ NN TO NNP . CC VBP DT NNS WP VBP DT JJ NN NNS , DT NNP NNP POS IN NN CC NN CC NNS , '' PRP VBD . CC VBZ PRP VBP DT NN NN , CC PRP VBZ RB DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN , DT NN IN NNS VBG PDT DT NNS . '' 
IN IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NN NN NN , RB , NNP POS NN VBZ RB VB TO VB VBG PRP$ NN . IN CD NNS VBP RB VBN VBN IN DT NN , CC NNP NNP VBZ PRP$ NNS TO VB $ CD CD DT NN . IN CD , NNP POS JJ NNS MD VB $ CD CD , NNS VBP . DT JJ NNS VBP DT NN NN IN NNS IN NN NNS VBD . IN NNS RB VBG JJ NNS CC VB IN JJ NNS , CC NNS RB VBP TO VB NNS CC JJ NN , DT NN IN NNS VBZ TO VB JJ NN IN NN . DT NN IN JJ NNS VBZ DT NN IN JJR NNS VBG RP NN NN VBZ RB . IN NNS IN NNS IN NNS CC NNS TO VB NNS , NNS VBP TO VB DT JJS : CC RBS JJ : NNS CC JJ NNS . CC NNS CC DT NN NN NN VBP JJ NN TO VB NNS IN NN , IN NNS RB VBP NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NN IN NN . 
DT NN VBZ IN CD JJ NNS '' IN DT NN . DT NN NNS MD VB RP RB . IN DT JJ , NN VBZ PDT DT NNS CC VBZ DT JJ NN NN VBN IN DT NN CC NN IN DT NNS . DT NNS VBP RB JJ . NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP VBZ VBG DT NN IN NN VBG IN NNP NNP NNP . 
NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP , NNP NNP PRP RB VBN IN IN DT NNP . NN , PRP MD RB VB RB RB RB . PRP VBD VBN IN JJ NN CD NNS RB , RB NN IN PRP$ JJ NN , WRB PRP VBD IN IN DT JJ NN . PRP$ NNP . NN VBD CD . PRP VBD DT NN , CC PRP VBD RB CD PRP VBD TO VB DT JJ NN IN PRP VBD JJ , PRP$ NN VBD VBG RB , CC PRP VBD PRP$ JJS NN IN NN . RB RB IN PRP VBP JJ PRP VBP CD NN VBN . PRP VBD DT NN WRB PRP VBD RB JJ : PRP VBD VBN TO DT NN . CC PRP VBP RB JJ TO VB PRP IN PRP VBP VBD DT NN NNS . VBG NNS . PRP VBP JJ TO VB JJ IN . NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP PRP VBP VBG IN PRP$ NNS VBP DT NNP . NN WRB PRP VBP IN CD NNS JJ , IN PRP VBP DT NN NN . RB PRP VBZ JJR . PRP VBZ RB DT JJ NN PRP VBP VBN . CC IN PRP VBP PRP IN DT JJ NN CC NN VBZ VBG IN RB JJ NNS , CC RB PRP$ NNP . NNS , PRP VBZ PRP$ CD NN TO VB IN DT NN MD VB . 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD JJ NNS IN NNS MD RB VB IN JJ NN . NNS VBP NNS WDT VBP NNS VBP RB VB NN IN DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . MD NN , CC VBZ VBG . '' DT IN WDT VBZ NNP NNP , DT JJ NNP NNS NN IN JJ NN CC DT JJ NN NN NN NNS , DT RB JJ IN DT NNS . JJ NN , PRP$ JJ NN VBD CD CC PRP$ NN VBD RP DT NN IN PRP$ VBG DT NN . PRP VBD TO VB RP , VBG DT NNS IN PRP$ JJ CC NN NNS . IN DT JJ NN PRP$ NN NN VBD VBN TO CD . PRP VBD PRP VBD VBG PRP$ NN DT JJ NN . IN PRP PRP VBD RB DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . JJ NN DT JJ NN . WRB MD PRP VBP TO VB DT NN . '' NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP IN IN DT JJ NN , NN VBD VBN IN NNP NNP IN DT NNS IN NNP NNP NN . DT NNS VBD DT NN NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS CC DT NN CC DT NN IN DT NN IN NNS POS NN . DT NN VBG DT NN NN MD VB TO NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP NNP , CD NNP CD NNP , NNP NNP , NNP CD , CC NN ( CD ) NN . NN : NN NNP NN . ( VBP DT JJ NN . ) 
DT JJ NN IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD NN IN PRP VBD TO VB DT NN IN JJ NNS CC VBP RP IN JJ JJ NN . DT NN VBZ RB VBN DT NN VBN TO VB CC VB JJ NNS IN CD , WRB NN NNS VBD VBG NNS TO VB VB DT NNS IN JJ NNS . PRP RB VBZ DT RB JJR IN DT NN IN DT NN TO VB DT JJ JJ NN , CC NNP NNP VBD NN , '' MD VB JJR . '' NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ CC JJ NNS , RB RB IN JJ NNS . NNS VBP DT JJ NNS TO VB RB IN NN NN NNS CC IN VBG NNS WDT VBP JJ CC JJ TO NN RBR RB , '' NNP NNP , DT NN CC NN WP VBD IN DT NNP NNP IN PRP VBD NN IN DT NN IN NNP CD , VBD . 
DT NN IN DT NNP NN IN NNP NNP VBD IN IN JJ NNS IN CD , CD NN NN NNS IN JJ NN NN RB IN VBG DT NN , RB IN CD NN IN CD . RB CD NN IN JJ NNS VBD PRP VBD TO VB NNS . CC MD VB NNS VB RB , '' NN VBD RB VB PRP , '' '' NNP NNP VBD . CC JJ PRP MD . PRP VBP PRP VBD DT NN TO VB RP IN PRP . '' VBG DT NN WRB NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN , PRP$ NN , DT NN , VBD VBN TO NNP : DT NN VBD RB CD NNS IN DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP . PRP VBD RP RB JJ IN JJ NN , VBG NN NNS CC NNS , VBG IN JJ NNS . WP VBD DT JJS NN TO VB PRP$ NN IN NN , PRP VBD PRP WDT NN IN CD , IN PRP VBD TO VB IN NN . VB DT NN IN NN CC NN DT NN RB , WDT , RB RB , VBD DT RB JJ CC RB JJ NN . 
NNP VBD DT JJ NN NNS IN NNP IN NNP VBD VBN PRP$ NNS IN NNP , DT JJ NN WDT NNP VBD DT JJ NNP . NN VBD VBN DT NN IN NNP IN CD CC VBD IN NN DT NN IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD NN . NNP NNP RB VBD IN NNP CC VBD CD IN DT NNS WP VBD NNP IN NNP VBD VBN IN NNP IN NN CD . VB VBD IN WRB NN VBD RB , PRP VBD RB JJ TO VB PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT NNS VBD IN DT JJ NN VBD DT DT : PRP VBP RB VB DT NN TO VB PRP RP . PRP MD VB VBN IN VBG JJ NN . '' DT JJ NN VBG VBN MD VB DT NN IN IN DT NNS , '' PRP VBD . PRP MD VB TO DT NN CC VB VBN . PRP VBD DT NN MD VB VBN TO NNS WP , VBG VBD CD NN NN , VBD VBG NN NNS . '' 
PRP VBP IN DT JJ JJ NN VBZ RB DT JJ . CC IN NN NNS VBP JJ IN NNS IN PRP$ CD POS , PRP VBP RB RBR JJ . PRP VBP DT NN NN IN JJR NNS IN PRP , CC WRB PRP VBP CD , PRP VBZ JJ . IN NNS IN DT NN WRB NN NN VBZ VBN , PRP VBP , NNP NNP , PRP VBP RB CD , CC PRP VBZ NN TO VB IN DT NNP . VB DT NN , CC IN PRP VBP DT NN , VB PRP CC PRP MD NN PRP . EX VBZ RB JJ NNS VBG DT NN IN NNP . NNS . DT JJ NN NN VBZ RB VBN VBN TO VB NN CC NN RB . IN PRP VBP PRP VBZ DT NN IN , RB RB RB JJ NN , CC VBP IN DT NNS MD VB JJ . NNP , IN JJ NNS , PRP VBP DT NN IN DT NN VBZ PRP$ NN CC NN . CC PRP VBP RB VB NN RB TO VB . 
NNP . WRB VBZ DT NN IN NNS JJ IN DT NN PRP VBP RB VBN . NNP NNP RB , EX VBZ VBN DT JJ NN . IN JJS NNS , DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN , CC RB , IN DT NN NNS JJ NNS , DT NN VBZ VBN . IN NN VBG , PRP MD VB DT NN . RB IN NNP NNP , PRP VBP VBN JJ DT NN WP VBZ TO PRP IN NN . PRP VBP JJ JJ NN : NNP , DT RBS JJ NN NN . WRB DT NN VBZ IN IN NNP , PRP VBP DT NN IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBD PRP IN DT JJ NN NN WDT VBZ DT JJ JJ NNS IN DT NN . RB , PRP VBP VBG IN JJ NNS IN DT NNS CC NNS IN DT JJ NN . PRP VBP DT NN IN JJR NNS WDT VBZ PRP VBP DT NN POS NN IN NN CC WDT NNS VBP JJ TO VB IN NN NNS . 
NNS VBP RB VB TO VB IN IN PRP$ NNS VBP VBN RB , DT NNS VBP VBG TO VB DT JJ RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NNS MD VB JJ IN JJ JJ NNS CC JJ NNS JJ . '' NNP NNP RB VBD DT NN IN NN VBN RB IN NNS IN JJ NN NNS . NNS VBP RB VB PRP TO VB IN PDT DT NNS VBP RB , '' PRP VBD . VBG IN JJ NNS IN NNS VBN IN DT CD POS , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' JJR NN VBZ JJ . CC JJS NNS MD , TO DT JJ NN , VBP DT JJ NNS . DT VBZ TO DT NN IN JJ NNS . '' 
DT JJ JJ NN VBN TO VB NNP MD VB NN NNS IN JJ NNS CC NNS IN VBG NN , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ VBN . NN NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN , NN NN , VBZ IN JJ NN CC VBZ JJ NNS . IN NNP , DT NN VBD DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , WDT MD VB VBN TO VB NNS WDT VBP JJ NN IN NN , NN NNS CC NN NNS . DT NN NN VBZ JJ JJ NN , VBG NNS IN JJ NNS . DT NN , VBN IN JJ NN IN NNP , VBZ RB VBN IN NNP IN DT NNP NNP , WDT VBZ PRP . IN VBG DT NNS IN DT NN , DT NN NN VBD DT NN VBN IN DT NN IN NN , IN WDT NN JJR IN CD MD VB NN IN JJ NN . IN DT NN NN IN NNP , DT JJ NN VBD IN CD TO CD IN NNS CC NNS . IN NNS CC NNS , DT NNS VBD IN CD TO CD . DT NN NN VBZ JJ IN NNS VBN IN JJ NN VBP VBN IN JJ NNS , DT JJ NN IN WP VBP JJ . 
IN DT NN IN NNP VBD VBG IN JJR NN TO VB TO VB IN NN NN , DT NN IN NNS VBG DT NN VBZ RB VBN , CC NNS VBP PRP VBP VBG TO VB RP IN NN . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NN VBD CD TO CD NNS . IN JJ NNS , NNP VBD IN NNS RB IN NNS VBN IN JJ NN IN NN NN . WDT VBZ NNS WP VBP DT NN IN NN NN , VBG NN , VBP JJ NN IN DT NN CC VBP NNS , WDT MD VB NNS TO NN . IN NNP CD , IN DT NN IN DT JJ NNS , NNP VBD NNP TO VB IN NN NN IN NN IN CD , JJ NNP CD , CD . IN DT , RBS NNP NNS VBD JJ RB IN DT JJR NN VBN NN . 
NN VBZ RB DT NN IN NN , CC PRP VBD JJS IN PRP$ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC NN IN PRP MD CD NN VB RP IN DT NN WDT VBZ DT NN NNS VBZ DT NN . PRP VBP PRP VBZ DT NN RB , IN JJS . '' 
NNS VBD IN , IN DT NN VBG NNP NNP PRP MD VB NN IN PRP$ IN DT NN CC PRP$ VBG PRP VBD VBN CD CC VBG WRB PRP MD RB RB VB PRP . RB , PRP VBD IN RB PRP MD VB DT NN . CC PDT DT NN , PRP VBD PRP , '' PRP VBD . NN VBD JJ IN PRP VBD DT NN NNP . '' '' NN MD VB VBN JJ , '' PRP VBD , VBD PRP VBD TO PRP DT NN IN NN : WRB VBP VBG IN NN WRB DT NN MD RB VB DT NN . NN TO DT NN CC NN IN PRP , NN TO DT RB JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNP . '' PRP VBD NNS . NNP NNP POS NN MD RB VB WRB NN PRP VBD . JJS NNS VBP RB , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC NNS IN NNP NNP WP VBZ JJ NN WRB TO VB IN NNS . RB NNS WP VBP JJ NNS WRB PRP VBP DT NN RB VBZ RP , NNP NNP VBD . 
NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNP , VBZ RB JJ . CC VBZ JJ NNS VBP TO VB JJR NN , '' PRP VBD . NNS VBP RP DT NN IN NN VBZ RB JJ IN PRP VBZ JJ DT NN VBZ VBG RB RB IN PRP . PRP MD RB VB NN IN NN , CC PRP VBZ CD JJ NN IN DT NN . '' NNP NNP VBZ IN DT NN MD RB VB DT NNS POS NNS . CD PDT DT JJ NNS VBZ VBZ JJ RB , '' NN MD VB , '' PRP VBD . CC EX VBZ DT MD TO VB , TO VB NNS POS NN , DT NN MD VB NNS WRB TO VB WP VBZ JJR CC WP VBZ JJR . '' NN NNP 
IN DT NN IN NN WDT VBZ VBN NNS , DT NNS VBP RB VBN VBN RP PRP$ NNS IN NNS VBP PRP$ NN IN JJ NNS . DT NN TO NNS IN JJ NNS VBZ IN NN , CC MD VB DT NN IN NNS , CC JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . IN JJS CD NNS IN WDT JJ NNS VBP VBN NN VBP VBN VBN IN DT NN IN DT JJ CD NNS . NNS VBP IN RB RB NNS VBP RB RB VBN CC VBP RB VB IN WRB PRP VBP PDT DT NN , EX VBZ DT NN IN NN CC NN , CC EX VBP JJ NNS . NNS IN DT NN VBP IN IN DT JJ NNS MD RB VB RB TO JJ NNS VBN IN DT NNP NNP , DT JJ NN VBP . PRP VBP DT NN VBN IN DT NNS VBZ RB RB JJ CC VBZ JJ TO VB VB WRB TO VB NN NN . 
VBN IN JJ NN , DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN . RB , DT NN VBZ IN DT NN IN VBG JJ VBD RP DT NNS . CD NNS IN VBG NN VBP DT JJ , CC DT RB CC JJ NN VBZ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBG DT NN . CC NN NNS PRP , VBG PRP$ JJ NN . '' DT NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN , WRB PRP VBP . NNP NN VBZ RB , CC VBZ JJR NN TO VB CC VB DT NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN NN IN JJ NNP NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP . CD NN IN RB JJ NN VBZ IN PRP MD VB DT JJ NNS IN IN DT NNS , CC RB RB , NNS VBP VBN DT NNS VBP . VBG DT NN VBZ JJ MD VB DT NN , IN PRP VBZ NNS IN RB JJ NN TO VB . VB DT JJ NN , PRP MD RB VB TO VB JJR CC RBR IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN POS NN NN , CC DT IN DT NN NNS MD VB PRP$ NN TO VB DT , '' VBD NNP NNP . VB RB VBP RB VB RB WRB JJ NN IN NNS TO VB PRP MD VB TO VB IN DT JJ NN . '' 
IN JJ NNS IN DT NN , PRP$ NN TO VB PRP$ NN VBN IN PRP$ JJ NNS . NNP , DT NNP , VBD PRP JJ NN DT NN RB , IN VBG CD NNS . PRP VBZ JJ CC VBZ IN DT NN NN IN NNP . PRP VBD JJ DT NN IN RB VBG PRP$ NN NN NNS . CD VBP PRP VBZ IN NNP , '' PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN . CC PRP VBP CD NNS , PRP VBP TO VB PRP JJ . PRP$ NNS CC NNS VBP , '' VBP IN NN NNS CC VBP RB VB IN WP NNP MD VB . '' JJ VBP PRP VBZ JJ . PRP VBP TO NNP TO VB PRP . DT MD VB DT JJ NN . NNP , RB RB . '' DT NNP IN CD , WRB DT NNP NNP VBD NNS POS NN TO VB NN RB RB IN PRP VBD RB VB DT JJ NN , '' NNS VBP VBN CD NNS VBG NNS CC NNS , IN JJ NNS VBG IN JJ NN , VBG NNS CC JJ NN IN NNS , VBG TO NNP NNP NNP . DT NN VBZ DT NN IN NNS CC NNS WDT VBP IN NN TO NN , DT IN WDT MD VB IN DT NNP NNPS NNP NNP . IN NNS , NNPS RB VB DT NNS , RB IN PRP VBP NN MD VB JJ . DT NN , DT NN MD VB IN NNP NNP POS JJ NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN PRP VBZ RB VB DT NN TO VB DT NN IN DT NN . 
IN PRP VBZ RB JJ IN DT JJ NN NNS TO VB WRB NNS VBP IN PRP$ CD POS CC CD POS , DT NNS RB VBP RB RB IN NNS VBP JJ IN NNS JJR IN CD . IN DT , NN NN VBZ RB JJ : NNS IN PRP$ CD POS CC CD NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN VBG VBN IN JJ NN : DT NN VBG TO CD VBZ RB JJ TO VB PRP . CC RB , VBN NN NN POS JJ NN , JJS JJR NNS MD VB IN JJ NNS , IN NN NN CC NN . NNP DT NN IN JJS JJ NN NNS VBP IN PRP$ NN RB IN IN PRP . RB , DT NNP . NN MD RB VB DT RBR VBG NNS IN WDT JJ NN MD VB DT NN . RB , DT NNP . VBZ TO VB JJ NNS , RB DT JJS IN WP VBP NNS WP VBP VBN NN CC RB VBD DT NN . PRP VBP RB VBN IN NNP . NN VBZ VBN PRP$ NNS , IN RB VBN PRP . RB , IN DT NNS DT NN MD VB VBN RB DT . 
NNS VBP RB VBG DT NN IN JJ NNS TO VB NNS TO VB RP PRP$ JJ NN NN , CC DT NNS VBP VBN JJ . VBN TO VB NNS , PRP RB VBP DT JJ NN TO VB IN DT NN IN DT RBR NN . CC IN JJ NNS , NN VBZ VBN RP TO VB DT JJ NN . PRP VBZ JJ NNS IN CD NNS TO VB JJ NN . DT JJ NN VBZ NN TO DT JJ NN IN DT NN , CC PRP MD VB CD TO CD NNS IN PRP VBZ NN TO DT JJ NN . WRB NNS VBD TO VB VBN IN JJ NNS IN DT CD , DT NNS MD RB VB RP IN PRP$ VBN NNS . PRP VBP VBN RB VBG , CC VBP RB RB IN PRP$ JJ NNS CC VBP VBN IN NN IN NN . IN DT JJ NN , JJ NN MD VB DT NN JJ NNS MD VB . 
RB IN JJ JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD , DT NN MD VB DT JJR NN IN DT VBP IN DT NN IN VBG DT NN . IN NN , PRP MD VB IN IN NN NN NNS , PRP MD VB NNS . IN NN RB , JJ NNS MD VB NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN CC VBN JJ CC JJ NNS . JJR IN CD NN IN DT NNS WP NNP NNP VBD VBN JJ CC JJ JJ JJ NN . CC NN RBS NNS VBP TO VB , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' , EX POS PRP CC PRP CC IN DT NN . '' '' 
RB , NNS WDT VBP RB JJ IN DT NN IN NNP RB MD RB VB DT JJ NN IN VBD VBN IN DT NN . PRP MD RB VB PRP$ VBG TO DT JJ NNS CC JJ NNS , CC JJ NNS CC NNS IN VBG NNS IN NNS JJ NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP NN . VB IN JJ NNS CC NN RB VBZ TO VB IN DT JJ NNS VBP VBN , PRP RB VBP TO VB DT . '' DT NNP POS NNP NNP VBZ VBG TO VB DT NN IN NN NNS RB IN NNS WP VBP VBN NNS . DT NN IN DT NN VBD RB VBN , CC MD VB IN RB VBN IN CD IN EX VBZ DT NN IN DT NN RB VBZ VBG DT VBN NN IN NN NN . JJR NNS IN NN CC NN VBP VBN VBN TO VB JJ IN JJ NNS CC JJ NN IN NNS VBN IN NNP NNP . JJR NNS , RB NN RB JJ IN DT NN NN , VBP DT JJ NN IN VBG DT NN IN NN NN , NNP NNP VBD . 
CD NNS DT NN , NNP NNP NNP , CD IN DT NN POS JJ NN NNS , VBZ IN PRP$ JJ NNP NNP CC VBZ TO PRP$ NN , WDT VBZ VBN IN NN NNS CC VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP . IN NNPS , PRP RB VBZ TO PRP$ NN , WDT VBZ VBN IN NN NNS CC VBZ DT JJ NN : IN NNP , NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBN JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP POS NNP IN NNP NNP IN DT JJ CD NNS , VBD VBG IN DT NNP IN DT NN CC DT NN RB . CC DT NN TO VB NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP VBD JJ TO VB IN DT NN VBD CC DT NN IN PRP VBZ IN JJ NNP NNP . PRP VBD RB NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP POS JJS NN NN , VBN TO VB PRP VB RP PRP$ JJ VBN NN IN VBG NN CC NN NNS . DT NN VBZ RB DT RBS RB VBN NN IN DT NN IN DT NN . 
DT NN IN NN VBZ TO VB NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , IN NN CC NN NNS , MD VB RB VBN CC RB VB DT JJ TO DT JJ NN CC VB DT JJ TO DT JJ NN . DT JJ NN TO VB JJ DT NN VBZ IN NN NNS WDT MD VB JJ NNS IN DT VBN NNS IN NNS IN DT NN CC NN . DT WP VBP VBG TO VB IN JJ NNS VBP IN PRP$ NNS VBP IN RB JJ CC IN , RB , DT VBP VBG JJ NN IN NN IN DT NNP . IN JJ NN NNS DT IN DT NNS VBP RB VB TO VB RB WP PRP VBP , CC WRB . VB DT JJ NN IN NNS VBP TO VB NN IN PRP , '' VBD CD NN WP VBZ VBN IN PRP , NNP NNP , DT NN CC JJ NN IN NNP NNPS IN NNP , NNP . 
DT JJ NN VBD , VBD NNP NNP , VBZ VBN TO VB DT NN IN NN NNS CC VB VB NNS IN NNS IN , IN NN , MD VB DT NN VBZ IN DT NNP NNP CC NNP NNP . '' VBZ DT NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ TO VB DT NN PRP VBP IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , CD IN DT NNS WP VBD DT JJ NN . RB RB , NNP VBZ VBN TO VB NN IN DT JJ NN NN NNP . NNS VBN IN NetRatings JJ NN VBD NNP VBG CD NN IN DT NN NNS , IN NNP VBD DT CD NN NN NN . RB , IN DT JJ NN , DT NN IN NNS NNP VBD VBZ VBN IN CD NN , IN NNP POS NN VBN IN RB CD NN . JJ NNS VBP RB JJ IN NN , CC PRP VBP TO VB CC TO VB , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NN VBG IN NNS TO VB DT NN IN NNS IN NNP POS NNP NNP NN . 
DT JJS NN IN NN , IN JJS TO PRP , VBZ WRB PRP VBZ : IN DT JJ NN IN DT RBR VBG . CC EX VBP JJ JJ NNS : VBG RB CC VBG IN NN . NN , VBP NNS IN JJ NN , DT NN VBZ TO VB DT . NNP NN VBD IN DT NN IN NN , CC NN NN VBZ DT NN IN JJS JJ NN , DT NN WRB PRP VBZ NN . IN NNP NNP NNP , CD JJ NNS VBP IN NN CC NN NN IN DT NN IN NN , CC NNP , DT NNP , VBZ PRP$ NN NNS WDT VBP NN PRP VBP IN NN IN MD RB VB IN NN . '' PRP VBZ RB VB RB JJ NN , RB , CC RB DT NNS IN NN WDT VBP RBR JJ TO VB : JJ NN : WDT NNP VBZ IN JJ VBP JJ '' : JJ NN : POS NN VBZ , PRP$ NNS VBN '' : CC JJ NN : CC VBP RB VB WRB PRP VBP VBG , PRP VBP RB VBN DT RB JJ NN , PRP VBP RB VBN DT JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN . '' IN PRP VBZ TO PRP$ NNS CC NN NNS , '' VBP RB RB JJ NN TO VB IN IN PRP VBP TO VB DT JJ NN : CC IN PRP MD RB , PRP MD VB WP TO VB IN TO VB PRP , VB WRB TO VB DT NN , DT NN NN , DT JJ NN , DT NN , DT NN TO VB DT NN . '' 
JJ NNP NNS RB VBP PRP VBP JJ NN IN PRP VBP JJ . RB PRP RB VBP PRP$ NNP . VBZ TO VB IN DT NN PRP VBP CC IN JJS NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN IN PRP$ NN . NNP . NNP MD VB IN DT JJ NN . DT . JJ NN NNS . DT NN NNS MD RB VB IN PRP MD VB VBN TO VB PRP$ NNS . NNP . PRP VBP JJ NNS IN RB VBG NNS IN NNP . IN NNPS MD RB VB JJ NN NN , WRB MD PRP VB JJ PRP MD VB RB , JJ NN . WP MD VB PRP . DT . WP VBZ TO VB PRP RB , IN NN NNS POS VBG DT NN . EX VBP VBN NNS IN DT NNS IN NNP CC JJ NNS . CC DT VBZ IN DT NN VBZ VBN , RB IN PRP VBZ RB JJ . NNP . PRP VBD CD NNS TO VB PRP$ JJ NN IN NNP . CC EX VBP CD NNS IN DT NN . DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ VBN TO DT JJ NN . WP , IN NN , VBZ VBG TO VB DT JJ NN IN NNS IN PRP$ NN . 
DT JJ NN VBP RBR JJ TO VB IN JJ NN . NNP VBP IN JJ NNS , RB WRB DT JJ NN VBD JJ . NN NNP NNP : DT VBP JJ , DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NN . JJS VBP JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . VB NNS WP$ NNS VBP RB JJ IN DT JJ NN MD VB VBN IN NNP NN . CC CD CC CD NN NN RP IN NNP CD NNS . IN JJ NN IN NNS CC JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN , NN : diabetes 
POS MD VB RP IN DT NN CC VBP VBN NN CC NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP MD VB CD CC CD NN NNS CC NN NNS . PRP$ NN , NNP , WP VBZ VBN CD NNS , VBD RB RB JJ . CC NN NNS VBP RB JJ , '' PRP VBD . CC VBD DT NN WRB PRP VBD RB VBN . '' NNP NNP VBD TO VB PRP$ NN NN , PRP VBD , WRB PRP$ NN NN VBD TO VB . IN JJ PRP VBD DT NN NN , VBG RB RB CD NNS DT NN . CC JJ DT NN IN DT NN IN WRB TO VB DT NN RP , '' PRP VBD , CC RB VBN IN DT RBR JJ NN WDT VBD NNS , NN , JJ NNS , NN CC RB DT JJ NN . CC NN . PRP VBZ TO DT NN DT NN , NNS VBP , CC VBZ VBN VBG . IN NN , NNP NNP VBZ PRP$ NN IN JJS IN NN TO DT NN IN PRP VBD RB VB NN VBD RB JJ . 
NNP NNP , WP VBZ RB VBG IN DT IN PRP$ JJ NNS POS NN CC JJ NN , '' RB VBD IN DT NN MD VB VBN JJR JJ IN DT NNS PRP VBD VBD VBN RB VBN TO NNS . '' IN NN NNS VBP RB VBN IN DT NN POS NNS , NNP NNP : DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS WP VBD DT NNS IN NNS IN VBG CD NN NNS : VBZ RB . CD IN DT NN VBZ NNS VBG PRP VBZ RB DT JJ JJ NN , '' PRP VBD , VBG IN JJ NNS VBD VBN PRP PRP RB VBD PRP$ NNS IN WRB DT NN VBD JJ , RB IN VBN , IN DT JJ NN VBN IN DT NN . NN VBD DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN IN NN WDT , IN PRP$ RB NN , VBZ RB RBR JJ . IN PRP VBP DT NN IN NN , NN VBZ PRP VBP VBG IN NN . '' IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , NNS VBD PRP IN NNS IN JJR NN , VBG IN NNS : CC RB VBD NNP POS : IN DT NN POS NNS IN DT NNS . DT NN NN MD VB VBN IN DT NN POS NNP NN ( NN ) . DT NNS VBD POS NNP NNP IN NNP , '' DT NN VBN IN DT NN IN CD VBG NNS IN DT NN , IN PDT DT NNP NNP PRP VB . . VBG DT NNP NNPS IN VBG PRP$ JJ NN '' ( NNP ) , DT NN NN VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NN . 
IN EX VBP JJ NNS WP MD VB TO VB IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN TO VB NNS IN DT NN , '' DT NNS , VBN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN DT NNP CD NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , '' VBP IN DT MD RB . '' NNP NNP , DT NNP NN , VBZ IN WRB PRP$ JJ NNS VB PRP TO NN NN NNS IN JJ NNS , NNS MD VB PRP , '' RB IN PRP$ NN VBZ VBN IN IN VBG WP VBZ VBN , PRP RB VBP TO VB NN PRP VBP . '' '' CC IN NN VBZ RB NN , RB DT NN NNS , DT JJ IN NN , NN CC NNS , IN NNPS VBP IN NN , NN CC NN . NNP VBZ DT NN IN VBG DT NN IN NN NNS , NN NNS CC VBP NN NNS WDT VBP PRP IN DT JJ NN IN JJ JJ NNS . PRP VBP IN DT NN VBZ JJ , JJ CC JJ . IN JJ NNS , JJ NN VBZ DT NN , CD WDT JJS NNS VBP RB VB DT NN TO NN . 
DT NN , VBN IN DT NNP NNP , NNP CC NNP NNP , VBD DT NN IN RB CD NNS CD CC JJR , DT VBN CC VBN JJ IN NN IN DT NN IN DT NN . DT NNS VBD DT NN IN DT WP VBD NN NNS ( DT NNS CC NNS ) CC DT WP VBD RB . IN DT NN IN DT NN , CD NNS VBD NN . CC VBG NNS TO VB NN VBD TO VB DT NN IN VBG WDT NNS VBD RB . DT JJ NN DT NNS VBD VBD IN DT WP VBD DT NNS CC RB VBD VBG PRP VBD RB RBR JJ TO VB NN IN DT WP VBD RB VBN PRP . RB DT , NNP NNP NNS , VBD RB JJ TO DT NNS PRP . RB , JJ IN DT NNS VBD VBN RP DT NN WRB JJ NNS VBD CC NNS VBD DT RBR JJ NN IN NN . RB PRP VBD RB RBR VBG DT NN WRB PRP$ NN VBD RB VBN . 
IN NNS , EX VBZ JJR IN DT NN . CC VBP RB VB JJ NNS TO VB NNS RB IN JJ NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP CC NN IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP JJ NN IN JJ NN VBD RB TO VB NNS TO VB VBN IN DT NN . EX VBZ DT JJ IN JJ NN . '' CD NN NN MD VB IN VBZ IN NNS VBP RB JJ IN VBG NN . PRP VBP IN VBG DT NN VBN NNP NNP NN WDT VBZ JJ IN NN NN , VBG IN DT NN NN IN NN NNS . IN NN , DT JJ NN , VBZ JJ IN DT JJ NN , DT NN NNS VBP VBG NN NNS TO VB RP DT NN NN IN IN DT NN , RB VBG DT NN . IN NN VBZ JJ IN NN , WRB PRP$ NN VBZ RB JJ IN DT NN , PRP MD VB DT NN . IN JJ NNS , NN NNS IN NN NN NNS WRB PRP VBZ JJ NNS WDT VBP IN PRP . DT NNS , VBN IN DT NN , VBP IN NNS '' NNS , WDT VBP DT NN . 
NNP NNP , JJ NN IN DT NN CC VBG NNS NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBZ IN NN VBZ RB RB VBN IN NN NNS CC NN . VBG TO NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP , DT VBG NN IN NNP , NNP , DT JJ NN TO VB NN NNS VBD $ CD CD IN CD , WDT PRP VBD VBD DT JJ NN JJ NNS VBD VBN . CC NNS VBP RB VBG PRP VBG RP . JJ NN , CD NN IN NNS VBD NNS WDT VBD NN NN , RB IN CD NN IN CD , VBG TO NNP NNPS , DT NNS VBG NN IN NNP . JJ JJ '' NNS RB VBP NN IN VBG NN , NN NN , JJ NN CC NN CC NN . NNP VBP RB VBN IN DT NNS , IN NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP IN NNP , WDT VBZ CD NN NNS . DT NNS VBP RB . JJ JJ NNS VBP JJ NN NNS IN JJ NN NNS , NNS CC NNS . DT NNS VBP VBN CC JJ NN NNS , IN NNS VBP NNS IN NN NNS . NNS RB VBP JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS CC VB NN NNS . 
PRP VBP IN DT JJ JJ NN VBZ RB DT JJ . CC IN NN NNS VBP JJ IN NNS IN PRP$ CD POS , PRP VBP RB RBR JJ . PRP VBP DT NN NN IN JJR NNS IN PRP , CC WRB PRP VBP CD , PRP VBZ JJ . IN NNS IN DT NN WRB NN NN VBZ VBN , PRP VBP , NNP NNP , PRP VBP RB CD , CC PRP VBZ NN TO VB IN DT NNP . VB DT NN , CC IN PRP VBP DT NN , VB PRP CC PRP MD NN PRP . EX VBZ RB JJ NNS VBG DT NN IN NNP . NNS . DT JJ NN NN VBZ RB VBN VBN TO VB NN CC NN RB . IN PRP VBP PRP VBZ DT NN IN , RB RB RB JJ NN , CC VBP IN DT NNS MD VB JJ . NNP , IN JJ NNS , PRP VBP DT NN IN DT NN VBZ PRP$ NN CC NN . CC PRP VBP RB VB NN RB TO VB . 
PRP RB VBP JJ NNS IN JJ NNS TO VB JJ NNS CC DT JJ NN IN DT JJS NN TO VBG NNS IN NNS IN NN NN IN VBG IN DT JJ NNS . NN IN DT NN MD NN DT JJ NN IN NNS , NNS CC PRP$ JJ NNS , CC NN . PRP RB VBP DT JJ NNP NNP TO VB JJ NNS IN JJ JJ JJ NNS , JJ CC JJ VBN . EX VBP VBG JJ NNS , IN NNP NN , WDT MD VB VBN . PRP VBP TO VB JJR NNS IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN . PRP VBP IN VBG IN DT NN TO VB JJ '' VBZ DT NN IN VBG TO VB DT NNS RB IN DT NN . RB PRP MD VB JJ DT NN , CC PRP MD RB VB IN VBG NNS IN DT NNS VBP NNS IN PRP VBP VBN . PRP MD , RB , VBP DT JJ NNS IN JJ JJ NNS IN DT JJR NN IN NNS IN JJ NNS . 
DT JJ NN IN DT JJ JJ NN VBG IN DT NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP VBZ VBN DT VBG NN IN DT JJ JJ NNS WDT VBP VBN TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBN IN DT JJ NN . DT VBZ DT JJ NN IN CD NNS IN DT NN NN VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . IN RB DT JJS IN DT NN POS JJ NNS VBP VBG JJ NNS , EX VBZ NN IN NN . IN DT JJ JJ NNS EX VBZ VBN DT JJ CC JJ NN IN VBG RP DT NNS VBG DT NNS CC NN IN JJ NN . IN DT NNS VBG JJ NNS MD VB VBD JJ NNS , DT NNS MD VB RB VBN IN DT NNS , CC JJ JJ NN NNS IN NNS CC JJ NNS MD VB CC VB DT NNS . DT NN VBN IN DT JJ NNS VBZ IN DT NN NNS VBP VBG RP TO VB CC VBP RB VBG WP DT NNS VBP TO VB . 
IN NNP NNP POS NN FW , '' DT NN VBZ RP CD NNS IN DT NN TO VB DT NN VBZ VBN JJ NNS TO VB JJ . VBZ DT NN RB RB . IN RB , JJ NNPS VBP RB VBN IN DT RB JJ NN IN DT NN IN WP DT NN NN VBZ . RB , PRP VBP JJ NNS VBP , '' DT NNS MD RB VB RP PRP$ NNS , PRP MD VB WDT PRP VBP CC VBP VBG . '' WDT MD VB JJ . NN MD VB NNS VB WP VBZ JJ IN WP VBZ JJ . EX VBP DT NNS RBR VBG IN IN DT NN IN JJ CC NN . RB , DT VBZ DT NN WRB NN MD VB DT JJ NN TO DT NN POS NN CC NN . DT JJ NN ( WDT VBZ RB RB JJ IN NN ) , IN NN , VBZ VBN RB JJ : RB IN NN VBZ NN WP VBZ VBN NN IN DT NN IN NN . VBN DT JJ NN IN NN , VBZ RB IN DT JJ NN . 
NN VBD IN PDT DT JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD PRP RP : JJR NN NN . CC EX VBD DT NN IN DT . VBN NN IN NNS IN NN WDT MD VB NN NN : DT NN IN DT . EX VBD DT NN IN PRP MD VB NNS , CC DT VBD RB VBN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN NNP CD , NNP NNP VBD , DT NN VBD DT NN CC PRP VBZ RB WRB PRP MD VB PRP TO VB '' IN DT VBG NN IN NN NNS VBD DT NN . NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NN NN IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP , VBD IN NNS VBD RB DT RBS JJ NN IN JJ DT JJ NN IN NN . JJS JJ NN VBZ VBN IN NN CC NNS VBP VBN IN VBG NN , IN NNS IN NN WDT VBZ DT NN , RB VBZ NN NN NNS IN DT NN . DT VBD RB DT NN IN NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , CC PRP$ NNS , WRB PRP VBD DT NN POS NNS IN NNP . DT NNS VBN NNS PRP VBD VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP POS NN CC NNS IN NNP NNP , DT NN NN . 
EX VBZ DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS , VBD JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . RB IN VBG DT JJ NN , NNS IN NNP , NNP , VBD DT NN NNS CC RB VBD PRP IN NNS POS NNS . PRP VBD JJ TO VB CD NNS . CC TO VB CD NN , NN NNS IN CD CC JJR JJ NNS VBD TO VB VBN . DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ TO VB NN NNS IN DT NN . DT VBZ RB JJR IN PRP VBZ : JJ NN NNS MD RB VB CC VB RB IN DT NN NN . CC JJ NNS , VBD NN NNS , VBP VB DT NN . IN PRP MD VB VBN TO VB JJ NNS , PRP MD VB JJ TO VB DT NN IN DT NN NN NN . RB RB IN , CC IN NN NN NN PRP MD VB JJ TO VB NNS TO VB NNS IN NN CC JJ NN NN , NN , NNP POS NN , NNP POS NN , JJ NN , JJ NN CC JJ JJ NNS . 
CD NN TO VB NN IN NN NNS VBZ IN DT NNP . POS NN NN NN . WRB JJ NNS VBP CC NN NNS , NNS , NNS , CC NNS VBP VBN TO VB DT NN . IN DT CD JJ NNS TO DT NN DT NN , RB DT VBP IN NNS WDT VBD VBN RB RB , NNP NNP VBD . IN NN , IN DT JJ NN VBZ VB , DT NN MD RB VB DT NN . CC PRP VBP DT NN WDT VBZ DT NN CC DT NN VBD VBD , VBP RB VB IN NN '' . '' NNP NNP VBD . CC PRP VBP DT NN MD VB TO VB NN . PRP VBP JJ IN PRP MD VB IN NN CC IN JJ NN . '' DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNS NNS IN NNS , WDT MD VB IN NNS VBD RB JJ . '' NN , EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN VBG JJ NNS VBZ TO RBR JJ NNS IN JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NNS CC NN NN IN DT JJ NNS NN IN DT NNS . 
DT NN NNS MD VB JJ NNP NNP , WDT MD VB DT JJ NN IN NN NN . EX MD VB NNS WDT VBP NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . VB PRP VBZ IN PRP MD VB RBR JJ IN PRP VBD . NNS VBD VBN IN PRP MD VB IN DT JJ NNS TO NNS , CC DT VBZ RB JJ TO VB . PRP MD VB IN CD NN IN NN TO DT , WDT IN JJS NNS MD RB VB IN JJ . '' IN NNP , DT NNS IN VBG NNS MD VB DT JJR JJ NNS IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , CC NNP MD VB PRP$ NN NNS VBP . JJ JJ NNS MD VB RBR JJ IN DT JJ NN IN EX VBZ JJR JJ NN IN DT NNP . NNP NNS MD VB PRP$ JJ NNS . '' IN NNP NNP NNP MD RB VB JJR , '' NNP NNP VBD . '' IN NN , JJS JJ NN VBZ IN DT NN , IN EX MD VB DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN JJ NN . JJR NNS MD VB VBG CC VBG NN DT NN , IN PRP VBD DT NN . '' 
WRB DT NNS VBD RB VBN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NNS , PRP RB VBD RB JJR NN IN DT JJ NNS CC VBD RB JJR NN IN PRP IN RB . RB , DT NNS VBD IN IN DT NN , JJ NNS VBD TO VB DT RBS NN IN DT NNS PRP VBD RB VBN . RB , NNS IN DT NNS VBP RBR JJ IN NNS WP$ NNS VBP JJ . RB NNS VBD JJ NN NN TO DT NN NNS CC RB NNS . PRP VBD IN NNS RB VBD DT NNS WDT VBD JJ , CC VBD RB RBR JJ IN DT NNS . NNP NNP VBD JJ NNS VBD VBN VBG JJ NN IN NNS , VBG PRP TO CD DT POS NNS TO VB NN . NNS VBP VBN NNS MD VB JJ IN JJ NNS IN RB , VBG VBG DT NNS IN JJ NNS IN WP NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN '' : DT JJ NN TO DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN CC NN . 
DT NN VBD NN . DT NNP POS NN WDT VBD RB VBN IN NN RB VBD JJ IN NNS . JJ NNS VBD JJ NNS : DT RB VBD DT NN IN PRP$ NN NNS , VBG IN PRP VBD IN DT RBS JJ NNS IN DT NN . NN CC NN NNS VBD RB RBR JJ , VBG RB IN NN VBD IN DT NN IN DT CD CD NNPS IN NNP POS . CC DT JJ NN VBZ JJ NNS IN WP TO VB IN JJ NNS CC WRB TO VB PRP . DT NN PRP VBD VBG . CC IN NN VBD DT NN RB IN DT NN IN DT JJ NNP . NNS RB VBD PRP VBD VBN NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ IN DT NNS IN NNP POS NN NNS CC VBZ VBN TO VB TO DT JJ NN IN NN NNS , VBG IN NNS IN NN IN NN CC IN DT NN TO NN CC NN . NNP VBP RB VB DT NN , CC DT NNS VBD VBN RB VBN TO VB JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN , NN NN , WDT VBD IN PRP$ NNS . 
NNS VBP JJR NN IN DT NN IN NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN IN NNS IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT NN IN NNS VBP VBN IN CC DT JJR JJ NNS CC DT JJR CC JJR JJ JJ NN NN NNS , CC NNP . POS , VBP VBN IN DT VBN NN IN NNS IN NNS . NNS VBP IN CD NNS IN NNS WP VBP VBN VBN TO NNP IN DT JJ NN , CD NNS IN NNS VBN TO NNP , CC JJ CD NNS IN JJ NNP . POS IN NNP CC NNP , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NN VBZ VBN DT VBN NN IN JJ NNS , NNS VBP . CD NN IN NNP , VBN IN DT NNP IN NNP , RB , VBD VB DT NN IN JJ NNS IN NNS IN JJ NN NNS CC VBD NNS IN NNS CD TO CD NNS JJ , IN DT NNS VBD RB VB RP IN JJ JJ NNS . 
NNS VBP VBN IN RB CD NN IN DT NN NN VBZ IN JJ NNS IN IN CD NNP . NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP , VBZ VBN RB IN DT NNS IN NNS VBP VBG . CC IN PRP VBP VBG TO NNS IN NN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD NNS IN NNS VBP $ CD , PRP VBZ TO VB DT JJ , JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP POS NNP IN NNPS CC NNPS IN NNP NNP , VBD PRP VBD NNS , RB NNP NNP NNS , WP VBD JJ TO VB PRP$ NNS IN $ CD . CC RB , NNP NNP VBZ , WRB MD DT NN VBP TO VB $ CD . '' MD VB DT NN IN DT NN : PRP VBZ IN VBG DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN DT , PRP VBD , PRP VBZ RB CD TO CD NNS TO VB NNS . DT NN VBZ NN NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS TO VB JJR IN DT NN NN , VBZ JJ JJ NNS RB DT NN MD VB DT NNS POS NN , CC RB VBZ VBN IN DT NN VBZ DT NNS IN PRP$ NNS IN DT NN . 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBD DT NN VBG JJ NNS , VBD PRP VBD IN PRP MD VB DT NNS IN DT NNS IN NNS WP VBP VBG VBG DT NN . CC NN IN DT JJ NN NN CC DT NN IN NNS VBG DT NN VBZ RB JJ , CC IN NN DT NN VBZ RB , RB IN , IN NNS VBP VBG DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP VBZ DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN VBZ IN CD NNS . DT NN VBD NNS CC NNS IN NN NNS IN DT JJ NNS IN CD NNS IN NNP NNP WP VBD NNS IN CD TO CD . DT NN VBD IN NNS VBD RB RBR JJ TO VB CC VB NN IN DT NN IN PRP VBD NN NN IN IN DT CD NNS IN VBG PRP . IN CD NN , IN VBG VBZ RB JJ , IN DT JJ NN NN VBZ JJ TO VB JJ NN . CC IN DT JJR NNS VBD DT JJ NN NN , JJ NNS MD RB VB , RB VB , IN NN VBD , NNP NNP VBD . 
IN NN PRP VBD NNP NNP , WP VBD VBG , NN NN CC JJ NN . IN DT VBG NNP NNP MD RB VB DT NN , CC IN CD NNS , PRP VBD VBG IN JJS DT JJ NN IN DT NN . RB , CD NNS IN PRP$ NN NN , PRP$ RB NN NNS RB DT CD CC CD , IN NNS IN DT NN IN DT . CC PRP VBZ RB IN DT NN , VBG IN DT NN IN CD NNS DT NN . PRP VBZ DT NN , CC PRP VBZ RB DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , VBG PRP$ NN . CC VBD IN PRP VBP RB VB TO VB JJ IN DT MD VB JJR . '' NNP NNP , RB , JJ NN IN NN . PRP VBD IN DT JJ NN CC PRP$ NN VBN IN DT NN . CC PRP VBD , PRP MD RB RB VB TO VB PRP$ NNS , '' PRP VBD . RB PRP MD VB PRP$ NN IN PRP$ NN , CC RBR JJ , PRP MD VB RP RB TO VB PRP IN DT NN WRB PRP VBZ VBG PRP$ NNS . 
WRB DT JJ NN VBZ VBN , NNS CC NNS VBP VBG NN JJR IN VBG PRP$ JJS NN IN DT NN . PRP VBP TO VB VBN , IN IN JJR NNS PRP MD VB DT RB JJR NN . RB , NNS RB VBP ( CC DT NN NNS RB VBP DT NN ) IN DT NNS CC NNS VBP DT NN . '' PRP VBD RB VBN IN DT NN NN IN DT NN VBD IN NNS VBD JJ NNS '' IN NN NN . PRP VBD IN PRP VBD PRP VBD DT NNS WDT VBP JJ NNS '' CC IN NNS VBP RB JJ TO VB DT JJS NN JJ VBN IN JJ NN . PRP VBP DT DT NN . CC NNS VBP IN DT NNS MD VB IN JJ NNS . NNP VBZ DT JJ NN IN WRB JJ NN NNS . PRP VBD RB VBN IN CD IN DT NN IN '' NN NN WDT VBD JJ IN NNS . IN NNS , RB , NN VBD DT JJ NN : PRP VBD VBN TO VB DT JJ NN . NNP , DT JJ NN , NNP NNP , VBD TO VB NN IN NNS IN NN NN . PRP VBD VBN IN JJ NNS VBD JJ TO VB , CC PRP VBD IN DT NN NN MD VB . RB PRP VBD . NNS RB VBD IN PRP VBD IN NNS IN JJ NN NN , CC RB IN NNS IN RB VBN NN NN . 
NN VBZ DT JJ NN NN VBZ VBN DT NN TO DT RB JJ NN NN , CC TO VB DT NNS VBP PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT JJ CC JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP POS NNP CC NN IN DT NNP POS NN NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP . CD NN VBZ RB VBG IN DT NN IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC JJS NN VBZ DT NN IN NN . PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB VBN DT . '' DT VBZ DT JJ NN DT NN VBZ VBN NN IN DT JJ NN IN VBG CC VBG DT NN . '' VBZ DT JJ NN , DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , CC JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP . NNS VBP RB VB NN VBG IN DT NN . '' DT NNP NNS VBD PRP VBD VBN VBN IN DT NN MD VB NN IN DT NN , VBG NN TO NNS IN NN CC JJ NN , CC IN DT JJ NNS VBD VBN VBN IN DT NN . TO PRP$ NN , PRP VBD , RB RB VBD DT NN NN NN NNS IN DT JJ NN , CC JJR NNS RB VBD TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN . 
NN MD RB VB DT NNS RBR JJ TO NN . JJ NNS IN DT NNS CC NNS VBP VBN IN DT IN JJ NNS IN NN NNP NNS , WDT VBP DT NN IN NN IN DT NN , VBP RBR JJ TO VB DT NN IN VBG NNS JJ . DT NNS , IN NNP , VBP IN NNS IN JJR NNP NNS VBP DT JJR JJ NN NN , VBG PRP TO VB IN NN TO VB JJ . IN CD NN , NNP VBD DT NN IN NN NNP NNS IN NNS WDT VBD JJ NNS . IN DT NN , DT NNS RB VBD PRP$ NN IN NN , WDT PRP VBD RB VBN RP RB . RB , PRP VBP RB RB VB WRB TO RB VB DT NN IN JJ NNP NNS IN NNS . IN NN , PRP VBP RB RB VB WRB TO VB RB WRB PRP VBZ TO VB CC NN . VBG WRB DT NN VBZ MD VB PRP TO VB NN RBR , CC PRP VBZ RB VBN TO DT JJ NNS , DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS . IN NN VBZ TO VB RB JJ JJ NN NNS , NNS VBP RB VBG DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN IN JJ NNS . IN DT , DT JJ NN VBZ DT NN POS CD JJ NNS '' NNS : NNP CC NN . 
POS NN NNS VBP RB VB DT NN IN NNP , '' PRP VBD , VBG DT NN IN JJ NN . CC MD VB TO DT JJ : POS VBP NNP . NNP : WP RB VBZ VBG PRP . '' '' CC JJ JJR NNS VBP RB VBN IN NNS IN PRP VBP NNS POS NNS RB , VBG NN NNS RB IN JJ NNS CC IN JJ NNS WP VBP DT NNS IN NNS NNP NNS . IN DT NNS , PRP RB VBP . NNP TO DT NNS POS NNS , NN NNS VBP RB VB NN : PRP VBP IN VBG NN NN TO DT NN . NNS VBP TO VB RB JJ TO VB DT NN , CC IN NN , RB VB PRP$ NNS IN PRP MD IN DT NNS . NN NNS VBP DT NN IN NNS MD VB VBG TO DT NN IN DT NNS IN RB JJ JJ NNS . NN TO NN , DT VBN , VBZ VBN DT NNS TO RBR JJ JJ NN . 
NN , DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS IN NNP . VBZ RB NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , JJ NNP . NNP NNS IN NN VBP JJ : JJ NNP NNS ( NNP , NNP CC DT RB VBN NNP ) VBP RB VBN RB . PRP VBP JJ NN IN VBG JJ NNS IN DT NN CC DT NN IN DT NN , CC MD VB NNS RB IN NN NN . ( NNP . NNS MD VB VBN IN JJ NN NNS RB IN IN JJ NN . ) NN VBP RB IN DT NN VBZ VBG : RB IN JJR IN DT NN . DT NNS MD VB NN CC NN , IN DT NNS VBP VBG PRP IN NN . JJ NNP NNS VBP NN CC VBZ RBS IN NNS IN RB VBN NNS . PRP MD VB RP TO CD NNS IN NN VBZ JJ , CC NNP MD RB VB VB NNP . IN VBG . IN DT NN VBG JJR IN CD NNS , VBD IN DT NNP NNP NNP POS CD JJ NN , NNS VBD IN NNS VBG NNP IN CD NNS VBD RB NN RB JJ IN NNS IN NN TO VB NN IN NNP . CC TO VB JJ NN . NN MD VB NN NN IN VBG NNS ( PRP VBZ DT JJ JJ NN IN NNP ) , CC MD RB VB JJ NN CC NN IN NNS . 
NNS , RB JJ NNS , VBP RBR JJ TO VB , CC NNS VBP RB JJ WRB . NN VBZ DT NN : CD DT NNS CC NNS VBP DT NN IN NN IN DT NN IN DT NN , DT JJR NN VBZ PRP$ NN RBR IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP MD RB VB RB JJ IN NN . CC PRP VBP DT NN NN WRB RB PRP VBZ IN DT NN , PRP MD VB CD NNS , IN DT NN MD VB CD NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB IN JJ NNS , VB VBG JJR NN IN DT NN . DT NN VBZ RB TO JJ NNS CC JJ NNS : PRP VBP CD IN PRP$ NN CC NN VBP VBN JJ IN DT NN . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NNS CC DT NN NN IN NNP , NNP , VBZ VBG IN NNS CC NNS ( PRP$ JJ NN ) , VBG DT NN IN NN TO DT NN NN CC VBG NNS NNS IN JJ NN . ( NNP POS JJ NNP NNP , IN NN , VBZ CD NNS IN NN , VBN IN PRP$ JJ NNP NNP IN CD NNS . ) 
PRP VBZ DT JJ , RB VBG NN . DT NN NN , DT NN , DT NN CC DT NN . CC DT NN VBZ JJ IN DT NN IN NN , NN VBD RB IN JJ NN WDT MD RB VB VBN IN NN . IN NN VBZ DT NN IN NN , DT NN IN PRP MD VB DT NN IN NN . NNP NN IN NNS NNS NNS IN NNS IN NNS DT NN , CC NNS VBP VBG TO VB IN IN VBG DT NN IN NN WDT VBZ NN RB . NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBP VBN IN NNP NNPS NNP NNS TO VB NNS CC JJ NNS IN PRP VBP MD VB DT JJ , VBG NN IN NNS IN DT JJ , JJ NN . IN IN CD NNS IN NN IN DT NN CC IN NNS , DT NNS VBP DT NNS VBP RB JJ IN JJ NNS . IN DT NNS VBP JJ CC JJ IN DT JJ NN , NNS VBP , PRP MD RB VB NN NN IN NNS CC NNS , VBG NNS IN NNS RB RB VBN . 
DT CD TO CD NN TO VB NNP VBD DT JJ JJ NN DT NN IN NN IN DT JJ NN NN . IN NNP , DT NN IN DT IN DT JJ NNS VBD TO VB NNP , DT JJ JJ NN IN NN VBN IN NNP IN NN IN NNP CC NNP NNP . DT NN NNS VBD JJ NNS , VBG TO DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN DT JJ NNP , DT NNP NN NN WDT VBZ VBN TO VB JJ NNS . JJ NNS IN DT NNP NN WP , IN NNP NNP , VBD , VBD NNS WDT VBD VBN TO DT NNP . VBZ JJ POS NN IN DT NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN WRB NN IN DT JJ NN POS NN VBZ JJ JJ NNS TO DT NN VBG DT NN POS NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN POS NNP IN NNP NN . IN DT NN NN NN , DT NN VBD CD IN DT NNP NN POS CD NNS VBD RB VBN CC VBN IN NNP CC NNP NNPS . CD JJ NN IN DT NN : DT JJ NN : VBD NN IN DT NNP , DT NN VBD , CC DT NN NN VBD RB VB IN PRP VBD IN NNP . CD IN DT NN NNS VBD , CC VBD RB VB , IN NN IN PRP$ NN NNS . 
IN DT NN IN WP JJ NNS MD VB IN VBG IN DT CD CC CD NNPS , VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS VBD DT JJ NNP . JJ NNS VBP IN DT NNS PRP VBP RB VBN . PRP VBP DT JJ NN WDT VBZ PRP VBP RB VB JJ NN , DT NN WDT VBZ NN NN . DT NN VBZ IN JJ NNS VBP DT VBG NNS IN DT NN IN NN , IN JJ NNS IN NNP NNP . ( PRP VBP VBN DT NN IN DT JJ NNP IN kristofresponds . ) DT NNS MD RB VB TO DT NN IN NNS , RB NNS . NNP NNS VBP VBG VBN WDT MD VB NN IN NNS , CC PRP VBP JJ NN IN VBG JJ NN CC DT NN WDT VBZ IN VBG . CC RB DT NN NN VBZ JJ IN NNS WP RB VB PRP , PRP MD VB IN CD NNS IN NNS VBP RB VBG PRP , RB IN , IN NN TO NN POS NN , NN NN VBZ DT NN IN DT NN CC NN . 
DT JJ NN VBZ JJ JJ NN : VBG VBN IN DT NN , RB VBG PRP VBP VBN TO VB NNS WRB PRP VBP IN DT NN . IN DT NN , DT NN NN TO DT JJ : JJ NNP POS : RB , VBZ RB JJ . IN CD NNS , IN PDT DT NNS MD RB VB JJ TO VB NN IN PRP , CC DT NN VBZ RB JJ . DT NNS VBP CC VBP TO VB IN IN DT JJ NN . WRB VBP PRP VB WRB TO VB VBN . NN : CD IN DT NNS PRP VBP IN NNS VBZ : IN PRP VBP PRP$ NNS , DT VBZ RB RB JJ , CC IN PRP VBP WP DT NN VBZ IN , DT VBZ JJ . WRB VBP PRP VB DT NNS MD VB IN IN VBG NNS IN DT NN . NNP : PRP VBP VBG IN NNS , IN IN PRP$ NN NN VBZ IN NNS . NNPS VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN PRP MD VB IN , CC RB PRP MD VB : RB VBZ WP PRP MD VB VBG . VBG NNS IN NNS VBP DT NN IN NNS WDT MD VB JJ TO VB DT JJ NN WDT VBZ IN VBG , IN NN IN NNS IN NNS . DT JJ NN , WDT VBZ DT JJ CD , MD VB TO VB NNS WDT VBP DT NNS , VBG DT NN IN NN IN NNS . CC PRP VBP JJ WDT MD VB VBN . 
RB JJ NN , IN PRP$ NN VBD PRP TO VB DT JJ NN NN , NNP NNP VBD TO VB NNP NNP NNP . NNP NNP , WP NNS IN NNP NNP , VBD IN NN NNP NNP POS JJ NN CC PRP$ NN IN NN MD VB NN NN CC PRP$ NN TO CD NN VBD NN . CD NNS RB NNP NNP VBD DT NN , CC NNP NNP VBD PRP VBZ VBN VBG NNS '' TO VB VBZ PRP$ JJ NN CD NNS . '' VB VBG IN NNP NNP VBD RBR JJ TO WP PRP VBD CC RBR JJ TO VB PRP TO PRP IN PRP VBZ DT NN WP VBZ NNS PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC RB PRP VBZ RB DT JJR NN . '' NNP NNP 
DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN , WDT MD VB TO VB IN JJR NNS VBP IN PRP . IN DT NN NNS , IN NNS WDT VBP RB JJ , NNS , DT NN NNS JJ IN VBG , MD VB TO DT JJ NN , VBG DT NN WDT MD VB NN NN . VBN IN NN , DT NN VBN IN DT NN NN VBZ . DT JJ NN VBD VBN IN CD IN JJ NNS VBG IN NNS . DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNPS , VBD NN , VBD RP IN CD . JJ JJ NNS VBD PRP TO VB RBR JJ , IN JJR NN NNS , IN JJ JJ NNS IN DT NN , IN NN CC NN . DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBD PRP IN DT NN NN IN CD . NNS VBP VBN TO VB JJ NN IN JJ NNS IN RB VBG NN . PRP VBP TO VB JJ NNS , VB NN NNS CC NN VBG . PRP MD VB NN IN JJ NN NNS , IN VBN IN NNP NNP NNS IN DT NNP NN IN NNP NNP . DT NNS VBP IN , IN NN , PRP MD RB VB VBN TO VB NN NNS RB IN PRP VBP . 
DT NN VBZ RB IN JJ VBG IN NN NN , JJ NNS VBP . DT NN VBZ TO VB DT JJ JJ NN : JJS JJ NNS VBP VBN TO VB NNS WDT VBP PRP NN , IN PRP$ JJS NNS TO VB . CC IN PRP MD VB VBN IN DT NNS IN JJ NNS MD VB RBR JJ TO VB DT JJ NN TO VB JJ PRP . CC NNS VBP RB VB IN DT NN POS NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN , DT NN WP VBZ CC NN NN DT NN VBZ IN . DT NN VBZ WP VBZ DT NN NNS VBP IN PRP VBP IN JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBZ PRP RB VBZ PRP$ NN IN JJ NNS IN NN CD WP VBP IN JJS CD JJ NN . CC JJR DT NN IN DT JJ NN , DT RBR JJ PRP VBP TO VB DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBD , PRP VBZ RB VBN VBG WP RB TO VB . DT NN VBZ IN DT NN IN JJ NNS CC JJ NNS VBP IN PRP MD VB VB NNS VB NN CC VB PRP RP . CC RB NN NN TO VB CC VB JJ NNS . 
NNP VBD DT JJS IN PRP$ NNS . NNP , IN CD PRP$ NN VBD DT NN NN IN NN CD . CC JJ , DT NN VBD IN NNP PRP VBD JJ NN . CC PRP VBD DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN : DT NN : DT NN IN DT : CC VB DT JJR IN RB DT NN . CC IN CD , NNP POS NN VBD DT NN NN , DT CD NN : PRP VBD CD . NN VBD VBN IN DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN VBD VBN IN NNP , CC VBD TO VB PRP IN DT JJ NN RB . PRP VBD DT NN , DT NN , WP VBD JJ NN . PRP VBD DT NN RB IN CD , WRB DT NN NN VBD RB JJ NN . CC VBD TO VB : DT VBZ RB VBG , '' PRP VBD . NNP VBD RBR JJ . PRP VBD NN IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBD DT NN CC VBD RP DT NN . CC PRP RB VBD PRP$ NN . 
IN PRP$ NN VBZ VBN IN NNS CC PRP$ NN VBD IN NN , NNP NNP VBZ VBG DT VBG NN IN PRP$ NN TO VB JJ PRP VBP DT JJ , JJ NN . CC VBP VBN IN NNS WRB NNS VBP RB VBN RP DT NN IN DT NN CC JJR JJ NN VBD IN , '' IN IN JJ NN . RB PRP VBP TO VB RP IN PRP . NNP POS NN VBZ VBN IN NN , VBP RB VB PRP . '' PRP VBZ RB VBN RP DT NN , CC PRP VBZ NNS IN PRP$ NN , NNS RB : NN CC NNS , IN NN : CC VBZ TO VB NN RB POS NN . PRP VBZ RB DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN IN JJ NNS IN VBG PRP$ NN . CC PRP VBP VBG IN DT JJ NN NN TO DT JJ NN NNS IN JJ NN CC IN PRP VBP VBG JJ NN , EX VBZ DT NN IN NN MD VB DT NN CC IN PRP MD VB JJR TO VB , '' VBD NNP NNP . NNS VBP VBG RP WRB TO VB DT NN , WRB DT JJ JJ NNS VBP , WRB DT NN NN VBZ CC RB IN NNS RB VBP NN . VB JJ PRP VBP JJ NN CC JJ NN TO VB DT NN . PRP$ NN , DT JJ JJ NN CC DT IN DT NNS VBN IN MD VB JJ TO VB PRP VB DT NN CC NN JJ IN PRP$ NN . 
NNP NNP VBD DT NNS TO VB IN DT NN NNS . '' IN NN IN IN DT JJ , JJ CC JJ NNS , DT NN IN NNS IN NNP WP VBD JJR IN JJ NNS VBZ VBN TO CD , RB IN CD IN DT JJ CD POS . DT JJS , NNP NNP , VBZ CD . DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN . RB , CD NNS VBD NNS IN CD , RB IN DT JJ IN CD IN CD , VBG TO DT NNP NNP . NNP NNP , CD , VBD PRP VBD DT NN TO VB IN NN . CC PRP VBD , PRP VBP RB JJ NN RB MD VB TO NNP CC NN , '' PRP VBD . PRP MD RB VB NNS IN DT NN TO VB IN CC VB WP DT NN VBZ IN . '' NNPS IN NN NNS VBP IN DT NN , IN NN IN IN NN NNS TO VB NNS . CC VBG VBZ VBN JJ , IN CD NN IN NNS . NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN CC DT NN IN JJ . RB DT NNS RB VBP DT JJ NN IN NN . CC RB RB JJ , '' VBP RB VB IN DT , CC PRP$ NN VBZ JJ , '' '' NNP NNP VBD . 
IN PRP VBD PRP RB , PRP VBD CD NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , CD . CD , UH , PRP VBD JJ TO VB RP . '' CC PRP VBD RB RB TO VB DT NN RP , PRP VBD , IN PRP$ JJ NN VBZ RBS IN DT NN CC PRP$ NN VBZ IN VBN NNS . PRP VBD TO VB VBG PRP$ NN IN DT NN NN NN . CC VBD TO VB RB IN PRP , CC WRB PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN TO DT NN , PRP VBD IN PRP , '' PRP VBD . CC NN RB , PRP RB VBD IN PRP . '' WRB PRP VBD DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD VBG CD NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN , DT NN WDT VBD VBN PRP IN DT NN IN JJ NN . PRP VBD CD NNS IN DT JJ NNP NN , WDT PRP VBD IN NNP . PRP RB VBZ RB VB IN PRP VBD DT NN CC DT JJ NN RB DT NN . CC VBZ PRP VB IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN CC IN DT NNS WP VBD PRP CC VBD PRP$ DT NN . 
DT JJ NN IN DT NN , RB , VBZ VBG NNS IN NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NN IN VBG DT NN IN NNS TO VBG . IN DT NN MD VB VBN , RB VBG IN PRP VBZ RBR JJ . TO DT NN , NNP VBD NNP NNP , DT JJ JJ NN , TO VB DT NN , DT JJ NN DT JJ NN VBZ VBN JJ NN IN NNS . IN NN , NNP VBD NNP RB IN PRP VBD NN IN DT NN WP$ NN VBZ RBR JJ IN PRP$ JJ . CC IN NN PRP VBZ RB TO VB NNP NN TO NN DT NN POS NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN . IN NNP VBD , NNP VBD VBN RB JJ IN WP PRP VBD IN NNP NN IN NN IN JJ NNS . CC DT VBZ VBN DT IN JJ NNS TO VB IN PRP IN DT NN CC DT NN , IN JJ NNS VBP WP PRP VBP IN NN CC NN NN . 
POS RB VBN PRP IN PRP RB VBD DT NNS PRP VBD TO VB NNS IN IN EX , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP , VBD NNP NNP NNP TO VB JJ NN NN TO DT NN NNS . CC NNP NNP NNP POS NN VBD PRP$ IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBD , VBG PRP$ NNS : IN PRP RB VB IN RB VBZ DT JJ JJ NN . PRP VBP VBG JJ NNS TO DT NN NN PDT DT NN IN EX VBP DT NNS IN RB . '' NN VBD , WP VBZ DT JJ NN , '' '' NNP NNP VBD , '' POS IN PRP RB VB PRP VBG , PRP VBP PRP VB , CC RB PRP MD VB PRP RP . '' '' CC NNP NNP NNP VBD RB VB DT NN NN . PRP VBD DT NN TO DT JJ NN IN PRP VBD VBG IN PRP$ NN , CC VBD PRP RP IN DT NN . CD IN PRP VBD TO VB RB CC RB VB VBN , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD PRP VBD VBG DT NN IN NN IN PRP . PRP RB VBD RB DT NN TO VB , FW , PRP VBP RB JJ . '' '' 
JJ NN VBZ RB VB DT NN IN NN : PRP VBZ RB VBN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP . NNS NN MD RB VB PRP VBP VBG DT JJ NN IN NN . NNP NN , WRB VBN RB , VBZ RB JJ CC RB JJ . '' CC NNS MD VB TO VB NN IN JJ NN , WDT VBZ JJ IN JJR IN CD NNS JJ . 
IN PRP VBD TO VB NN NN JJ NN , NNP NNP : WP VBD CD DT NN : VBD VBN DT NN IN NN JJ NN IN NNP . CC PRP VBD RB JJ NN IN PRP VBD IN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ NN IN NNP NNS VBD VBN VBN . PRP VBD RB VB , RB , IN DT NN VBD VBN VBN IN IN NNP JJ NNP TO VB VB NNS RB . NNP NNP 
CC , PRP VBD , EX VBZ DT JJ NN : NNS IN CD IN CD CC CD NN NNS , DT JJ IN NNS IN CD : WP$ JJ NN IN DT NN NN VBZ IN CD CC CD NN . '' IN DT JJ NNS , WP VBP CD TO CD NN IN JJ NNS , PRP VBD , '' VBP VBG IN NN NN MD VB PRP IN VBG WRB RB PRP VBP TO VB PRP . '' VBG DT JJ NNP POS IN NNP NNP NNP VBG NNS VBN NN , VBN IN NNP , IN WDT NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , CC PRP , '' VBD DT NN . VBG NNS VBP DT JJ NNP , IN WDT NN NNS VBP VBN IN NNS : CC JJ ( JJ ) NNP , DT JJ NN WDT VBZ NNS IN VBG IN DT NN . IN JJS NNS VBP JJ NNP , JJ NNP VBZ VBN VBN RBR RB IN NN NN . IN DT JJ NN , WDT VBZ IN DT NN , DT NN VBZ IN DT NN WDT VBZ IN DT NN . IN DT NN NNS RB , DT NN IN NNS NNS RB VBP NNS IN DT NN CC VBZ VBN IN NNS . NNS VBD TO DT NN POS JJS IN DT NN TO VB NNS IN NNS , VBG NN . 
CC VBZ PRP . NNS VBP VBN IN NNS WDT VBP RB JJ VBP RB JJ , VBG JJ NNS . PRP VBZ TO VB JJ IN DT NNS , RB IN NNS . WRB PRP VBZ TO NNS , DT JJ NN NN VBD JJR TO VB . CC PRP RB VBZ DT NN IN NN . CC PRP VBP IN DT NN IN JJ NN , PRP VBZ DT NN IN WP PRP VBP JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP CC DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP : DT NNP IN NNP '' ( NNP ) . EX VBZ DT NN IN WDT NN , VBN NNS CC VBG NN CC VBN NNS VBP RB VBN JJ CC RB . '' IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBD , NNP CC NN , JJ NN , VBG NNS , JJ NN CC JJ NNS VBP VBN IN DT NNS PRP VBP JJ . '' DT NNS , WP VBP VBG IN NN , RB NN , VBP PRP RB VBP DT NN POS NN IN DT NN IN NN . 
WP NNP VBD IN DT JJ NN IN JJ JJ NN , CC WP PRP$ NN MD RB RB VB , VBD RB WRB VBG DT NNS IN DT JJ NN NN MD VB : NN IN JJ NN NNS TO RB JJ NN TO NNS CC NN . TO PRP , NN VBZ RB RB JJ CC VB DT NN . IN PRP$ NN POS NN , NNP RB VBD CC VBD VBG IN WRB DT JJS NN MD VB IN PRP TO VB DT NN NN , VBG IN IN PRP$ DT NNS IN JJ JJ NN NNS POS NNS TO NN . IN DT NN VBD , CC PRP$ NN VBN IN NNP , NNP RB VBD WRB RB DT NNS VBD IN DT JJ NN IN NNP VBG RB DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . CC PRP VBD PRP VBD IN PRP VBD TO VB , DT IN DT NN VBD VBN DT NN CC IN PRP$ NN VBD VBN PRP ( CC PRP ) IN DT NN IN PRP VBD PRP NNS TO VB NN JJ , DT NN WRB RB IN DT JJ NN PRP VBD , TO VB CC VB PRP$ NN . 
RB , DT JJ NN VBN IN PRP$ JJR JJ NNS VBZ DT NN POS NN IN VBG NN IN NNP NNP POS NN . PRP$ JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD , '' RB JJ . '' IN JJ NNS VBP , PRP VBZ RB JJ . DT NN IN NNS RB , IN NN , NNP NNP VBD IN PRP$ NN NN CC VBD NNP NNP IN NN CC DT NN TO DT NN RB . CC VBD RB VB DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC NNP NNP VBD RB VBN IN DT NN , CC VBZ VBG IN CD JJ NNS IN DT NN NN . IN RB , DT NNP NN DT JJ IN NN CC NNS VBN IN PRP$ CD NNS . DT NN VBD DT NN IN NNP NNP POS NN . PRP VBZ VBN IN DT RBS JJ IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN . CC DT NN VBZ TO VB RB JJ : IN JJ NNS , PRP MD VB DT JJ NN CC NN NN . 
NNP NNP , CD , MD VB DT WDT NN CC JJR TO VB RP DT JJ NNP NN RB . IN DT NN , NNP NNS MD VB NN NN NNS DT NNP CC JJ NN NNS VBG IN NNP CD . CC DT NN RB VBZ JJ NN NN VBZ DT JJ JJ NN IN NNP , CC NNPS , WP VBP DT NN IN RB JJ TO JJ CC NN NNS , VBP JJ NNS , WDT DT NN VBZ VBG . IN NN IN NN CC NNS , NNP NNP VBZ VBN TO VB RP , IN NN NNS , DT NN IN NN IN VBG NNS IN JJ NN NNS IN NNP . NNP NNP VBZ DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NN NN , NNP NNP , CC DT NN IN DT NNP NN , NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBN IN PRP MD VB IN NN IN CD NNS . NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP IN NNP , VBD NNP NNP VBD POS JJ NN . '' NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , DT JJ NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ DT NNP CC NNP , VBD : NN . NNP VBD DT JJ NN IN JJ NN POS NNP NN NN NNS . PRP VBD PRP TO VB DT JJ NN WP VBZ RB VB NNS TO VB IN DT NN IN JJ NN . '' 
DT NNS IN DT NN NN VBD CD NN JJR NNS IN JJ JJ NN IN DT IN DT NN NN , CC PRP RB VBD JJR NNS IN JJ NN CC NN . IN JJ NN VBZ DT NN IN NN , NNS VBP PRP RB IN NNS CC NNS IN DT JJ NN IN NN NN , VBN IN NNS IN JJ NN NN , NN NN IN NN NN , VBZ , VBG CC NN . DT NNP NNPS NNP NNPS NNP NNP , WDT NNS JJ NN NNS , VBZ IN NNS VBP JJ NN IN NNS CC NNS WP$ JJ NN IN NN NN VBZ IN JJS CD NN . DT JJ NNP NNP NNS IN NNS CC NNS IN VBG DT NN IN NN . NNP WP$ NN IN NN NN IN DT JJ CD NNS VBZ IN JJS CD NN VBP VBN NNS IN JJ NN . CC NNS MD RB VB VBN TO VB NN IN PRP$ JJ NN VBZ CD NN , CC IN PRP VBZ CD NN CC PRP VBP VBN JJ NN NN . 
RB , PRP$ NNS VBP RB VB TO VB VBN TO DT NN . DT JJ NN IN JJR IN CD NNS VBD IN NN NN VBD DT NN IN NN NN IN CD NN IN JJ NNS IN NN . DT NN IN NNS VBG NNS VBZ VBN RB IN DT JJ JJ NNS . VBG TO NNP NNP , DT NN WDT VBZ JJ NN NNS IN DT JJ NN , NNS RB VBP IN $ CD CD IN NN NNS , CD NN IN DT JJ NNP NNPS VBP NN NN CC JJR IN DT JJ NN IN NNS . ( JJ NN NN NNS , IN NNP CC NNP , VBP JJ . ) JJ NN , NNS IN NN RB , VBN IN NNP IN NNP , VBD TO $ CD CD IN $ CD CD , DT CD NN NN . DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS VBD IN CD NN IN DT NN , CD NNS DT NN IN JJ NNS . JJS NNS VBP VBN RB JJ NNS . NNP NNP , DT JJ NNP NN IN NNS CC JJ NN NN , RB VBD VBG NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN . IN DT JJ NNS , PRP$ JJ NN NN VBD VBN TO CD IN CD ( IN CD VBZ VBN JJ ) , CC PRP VBD DT NN NNS . PRP$ NN VBD JJ IN DT NNS , CC RB VBD PRP . 
NNS POS NN NNS MD RB VB JJ NNS . DT NN VBZ JJ : IN NN NNS , IN NN , VB JJ NNS IN NN NN , RBS NNS VBP RB VB NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NNS IN WDT DT JJ NN VBZ VBG . JJ JJ NNS , IN DT JJ NN IN NNP NNS , VBZ JJ IN RB DT NN NNS VBP JJ . RB , JJ NNS IN NNS MD VB JJ NNS IN NNS . IN NN , WRB NN NNS VBP , NNS VBP RB VBN IN DT NN NN , VBG PRP NN TO VB DT NN . CC DT NN IN NN VBG DT VBN NNP NN , DT NNP NNP CD NNP , VBD NN RB RBR JJ : DT JJ NN WDT MD VB , IN VBG , WRB DT NN VBD VBG TO VB DT RB JJ NN . DT NNS VBP IN IN NNS VBD VBN TO RB VB JJR IN DT NN NNS PRP VBD , DT NN NN MD VB VBN TO VB JJR NNS . 
POS PRP VBD , NNS VBD WRB PRP VBD IN VBG JJ NN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . '' NN NN VBD DT JJ NN . PRP VBD RB . PRP VBD , RB DT NN VBD VBN , NNS MD VB TO VB DT NN , CC PRP VBD IN DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN VBN VBD DT NN JJ TO VB . '' NNP NNP 
NNP VBD VBN IN JJ CD NNS RB WRB JJ NNS RB VBD DT NN POS JJ RB IN DT NN POS NN IN VBG TO VB DT NN IN DT NN IN DT NN POS NN CC JJ NNS . DT NN VBD DT NN MD VB : WRB NNS VBD VBN JJ NN JJ NN IN NN JJ NNS , DT NN VBD VBN NN IN IN DT NNS POS NN CC VBD DT NN IN VBG DT NNS . CC , RB , DT JJ NN VBD TO VB CC VBD IN DT NN , RB DT NN , RB DT NN . NNP , DT JJ NN VBD . IN NNP , DT NN WP VBZ NN , RB IN PRP VBZ RB VB DT NN , RB IN VBN RB NN IN PRP$ NNS , RB IN VBN NN IN PRP$ NN TO VBG VBN , MD VB DT NN . NNS MD VB NNS WDT VBD VBN CC MD VB NN IN DT NNS CC VB DT JJ NN NN IN DT JJ NN , VBG PRP . 
POS NN VBD NNP IN PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN , VBP PRP VBZ IN IN PRP VBP VBN VBN DT JJ NN . PRP VBZ RB : PRP VBZ VBN VBG . '' JJ NNS VBD VBN IN NN TO NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN , CC NNP , VBD IN CD NNS , CD IN WDT VBZ TO VB VB DT NN IN NNS CC DT VBN IN NN CC NN . NNP CC JJ JJ JJ NNS NN IN VBG DT NNS IN NNP , RB VBG DT NN IN NNS . ( NNP CC JJ JJ NN NNS VBP RB VB NN , CC RB VB RB VB DT JJ NN TO DT NN . ) NN NNS RB VBP DT NN IN NN VBN IN NN CC NN , CC RB IN NN VB DT NN IN NNS . NNS VBN IN DT NNS : EX VBP , IN RB , DT JJ JJ NNS : VBP VBN IN NNS VBG CC NNP CC NNP VBP DT JJR NN IN NNS IN DT VBG JJ NN NNS . NNS MD VB DT JJ NN NN IN RB VBG NN , NN CC JJ JJ NN NNS . IN JJ NNS , DT NNS MD VB JJ , VBG IN NN CC RB NN . 
RB NNP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNP . 
DT NNP . POS JJ NN , VBN RB IN DT NNP NN , MD VB NNS VBN IN PRP$ NNP TO VB IN PRP VBP RB VB PRP$ NN NNS VBN IN JJ NNS NNS . DT NN MD VB IN NN IN CD NNS . CC RB , RB DT NNS POS NN NN MD RB VB VBN CC VBN TO NN NNS , WP$ JJ NNS IN DT NNS VBP JJ NNS VBN TO JJ NNS , WDT VBP VBN IN NNS . IN PRP VBP RB VBN VBZ IN NNS VBP NNS CC PRP MD RB VB JJ NNS IN PRP VBP RB VB TO VB VBN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP . CC PRP VBD DT NN VBD RB VBN JJ TO DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS MD RB VB CC VB CC VB '' NNS . '' RB VB TO VB PRP$ NN IN DT JJ RB RB , '' PRP VBD . 
RB , PRP VBD VBG . PRP VBP DT NN IN NN CC PRP VBD VBG NNS CC NN NNS . IN PRP VBD VBG , PRP$ JJ NN VBD IN . PRP RB VBD TO DT NN IN VBG NN , CC PRP VBP PRP IN PRP VBD RB VBN DT NN CC VB RB JJ IN NN , EX VBD DT JJ NN . RB PRP VBP JJ DT NN RB CC IN DT NN VB PRP VB RB TO PRP . IN PRP$ JJ TO NN , NN CC NN IN JJ NN NN , VBZ TO VB JJ IN NN IN DT NN . IN PRP VBD NNS IN PRP RB IN DT JJ NN PRP VBP RB VB PRP MD VB VBN RB JJ IN PRP VBD . NNP NNP , CD NNP , NNP . PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN NNP CD , CD . DT NN VBZ PRP VB IN PRP$ NN . PRP MD RB VB PRP VBD NN : JJR IN DT NN IN NNS VBG PRP IN NN VBD DT NN . 
NNP VBD RB TO DT NNS , VBG PRP VBD VBG NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN WDT VBD IN DT NN RB , IN NNS IN PRP MD VB RBR JJ . DT NN , NNP NNP , VBD DT NN VBG VBN NN VBZ IN VBG NNS IN JJ NN VBD RB VB JJ NN . '' CC DT NNS VBP DT NN VBZ IN NN VBD IN DT JJ NN . CC MD VB TO VB IN PRP CC VB RB VBZ RB RB VBN DT JJ NN IN DT VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN JJ IN DT JJ NN IN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD . CC JJ NN IN NN VBZ RB VBN RP , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN VBZ RB VB TO PRP IN WP VBZ JJ IN JJ NNS VBZ DT NN IN NN . '' 
NN POS DT JJ NN IN JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NNP IN NNP IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP . '' VBP IN DT NN WRB VBG NNS POS JJ NN NN VBZ RB RB DT NN . '' IN NNP , NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBN VBG NN PRP IN CD NNS CC VBZ DT JJ JJ CC CD NNS , MD VB DT JJ JJ NN IN DT JJ NNS IN NN VBG IN NNS . NN CC NNS IN DT NNS IN CD CC CD MD VB VBN TO VB WRB JJ NN , NN , JJ NN CC JJ NNS VBP TO CD JJ NN NN CD . DT NN NN RB RB IN CD NN NN NNS ( NNP NNP , NNP CC NNP NNP ) VBZ VBG IN IN JJR NNS VB DT NNS IN JJ JJ NNS : IN NN NN CC NNP POS : CC VB TO JJR CC RBR JJ NNS . 
WRB MD NNS VBP TO VB NNS TO DT JJ NN PRP MD RB VB . NNP IN DT NN VBZ IN JJ NNS IN NNPS : IN CD CD DT NN : VBP VBG VBN NNS , DT VBG NN WDT VBZ NNS , CC NN , IN DT JJ NNS . RB NNS VBP DT NN , PRP VBZ RB JJ RB TO VB TO VB NN IN PRP . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP , VBZ PRP VBZ JJ NN . '' VBZ VBP DT NN , CC PRP VBP , PRP VBP TO VB DT NN , '' PRP VBZ . '' VBZ DT NN , IN RB JJ NNS VBP JJ : PRP VBP RB VB DT NN : PRP VBP RB VBN TO NNS IN DT NN . CC PRP VBP IN DT NN , CC PRP MD RB VB RP IN PRP VBZ VBG . '' NNP JJ NNS , NNP VBZ , VB RB VB RB TO VB DT JJ NN , DT VBG NNS IN JJ NN WDT VBP VBG DT NN . PRP VBP TO VB PRP$ NNS TO VB DT JJR NN , IN NN , CC TO VB JJ NN CC NN . EX VBZ DT JJ NN TO VB JJ NNS , '' PRP VBZ . '' MD VB VBN RB : PRP VBZ RB JJ : CC NNS VBP PRP RB JJ : CC DT VBZ RB VBG NNS . '' CC RB VBG JJ JJ NNS VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN , DT NN CC JJ NN WDT MD VB DT NN NN RB IN DT NN . 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP VBP WP$ RBS JJ NN , JJ NNP CC NNP NNP , '' VBZ NNS VBG JJ NN , VBD DT JJ NN VBD RB IN NNP . IN DT NN , DT JJ NN VBG IN JJ NN VBD NNS IN PRP$ NNS , VBN IN DT JJ NN , CC DT JJ NN IN NNS IN DT NN , VBN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN VBD NN TO CD NNS , CD JJ , CD JJ , CC VBZ RB VBG DT NNS , NNP NNP VBD . JJ NNS , PRP VBD , VB JJ JJ NNS . '' VBP VBG DT NNS IN NNS IN WP VBZ DT NN IN DT NNS IN DT NN CC DT NN CC IN DT NNS CC WRB PRP VBP VBN TO DT JJ , '' PRP VBD . WP VBZ PRP VBZ IN PDT DT NN IN JJ NN VBZ IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB IN JJ NNS POS IN JJ NNS . '' DT NNP CC NNP NN RB RB MD VB NN TO NNS VBG IN JJR NNP CC NN NN IN NN NNS . CC NNP NNP VBD NNS VBP RB JJ . NNP NNP , PRP VBD , VBZ IN NNS VBP NNS IN NNS IN DT NN . NNS RB VBP JJ NNS IN DT CD VBN IN JJ NNS IN DT NN . 
DT IN WDT VBD DT NNPS IN NNP NNP RB JJ IN PRP VBD TO VB DT VBG NNS . '' VBP RB VBG PRP MD RB VB DT NN NN NN CC VB DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNS , WDT VBZ VBN IN VBG DT NN POS NN . CC DT NNS VBP VBG DT NNS CC VBG DT NN VBZ RB DT JJ NN NN : CC DT VBZ RB RB DT NN . '' NNP NNP VBD DT NN POS JJ JJ NNS RB VBD IN JJ NN , CC JJ NNS IN NN NN , VBZ , NN CC JJ NNS , VBD DT JJ NN TO DT NN . EX VBZ DT JJ , '' PRP VBD , '' PRP VBP IN DT NN NN IN NNS WP VBP JJ CC JJ IN DT NN . '' CC PRP VBD IN NNP VBP NNS TO VB IN DT IN DT NN RB WRB NNS VBP VBG IN NN VBZ VBG . '' 
RBR IN RB , CD VBZ TO VB NNS TO VB IN EX RB VBZ DT NN IN NNS CC TO VB RP WP VBZ VBZ RB IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . VBG DT JJ NN VBZ VBN TO VB VBG CC VBG IN DT JJ NN IN JJS JJ NNS VBP JJ . DT NN VBD JJ NN VBZ DT JJ JJ JJ NN IN NN NN NN IN JJ NNS . NNS IN DT NN VBD VBN NNP , DT JJ NN NN WDT VBZ VBN DT RBS RB JJ NN IN NN NN NN IN DT NNP NNPS . ( NNP VBZ VBN TO VB IN NNS WP VBP NN RB VBP DT JJ NN IN VBG JJ NN . ) DT NN IN NNP VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . JJ NN NNS VBP VBN IN NN , DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBN IN JJ NNS . RB , DT NN IN NN IN DT NN MD VB JJ IN DT IN NN NN , CC EX VBZ DT NN TO VB IN PRP MD VB DT NN IN NN NN CC JJ NN . 
IN DT NN NNS , DT NNP . VBD JJ CD CD NNS VBG TO VB DT NN IN VBG NN CC VBG NN NN CC , IN WP PRP MD VB , PRP VBD . CD JJ NNS VBD DT JJ NN . DT JJ , RB , VBG RB IN $ CD CD RB , VBD IN VBG NN IN NN NN MD VB NN NN . DT NNP . NNS RB VBD DT NN IN NN . NNP NNP , WP VBD DT JJ NNS IN DT NNP , VBD PRP$ NN DT NN : PRP VBD VBN TO VB IN JJ NN IN VBG JJR JJ VBD DT NN NNS . CC IN DT JJ NN MD VB NN NNS , RB DT JJ , JJ NN MD VB DT JJ . EX VBZ DT JJ NN , '' NNP VBD PRP . '' NN WDT MD VB JJ VBZ JJ , IN PRP VBP PRP$ JJS IN WP VBZ JJ . '' DT IN DT JJS NNS VBP IN DT JJ NN , VBG IN JJ NN VBD JJ IN JJ NNS IN NN , CC PRP VBD RB VBN . NNP NNP , WP$ NNP NNP NN VBD VBN DT JJ NN IN NN NN , VBD TO NNP POS NN IN NN VBZ RB TO JJ NNS . PRP VBD RB DT JJ NN WP MD VB CC WP MD VB VBN , PRP VBD , CC CD JJ NN . '' NNP NNP , RB NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS , VBD IN NNP TO DT JJ NN IN CD . WDT JJ , '' NNP VBD , '' DT JJ NN TO VB IN DT JJ NNS VBP DT JJ JJ NN , IN PRP IN NNS , IN DT NN IN RB RB JJ NN IN PRP MD VB PRP DT JJ . '' 
NNP NNP VBZ IN DT NNS , WDT PRP VBZ VBG IN NN IN DT JJ NN , MD VB DT NNS POS NN NN . PRP VBD , RB , IN NNS IN DT NN NN VBP DT RB NN IN NNS , IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN TO VB NN VBZ JJ . IN JJ NNS VBP VBN JJ CC JJ NN NNS IN VBG JJ NNS IN NNS , DT JJ NNS RB VBP IN DT JJ JJ CC JJ NNS VBP DT JJ JJ NN IN NN CC NNS . IN NN , PRP MD RB VB TO JJR CC VBN NN IN NNS , DT NNS VBP . NNP NNP , DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBD DT NNS VBD DT NN IN NN IN NN TO VB '' NNS IN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . IN CD , NNS VBD IN JJ NNS IN NNS VBG NNS WDT VBD VBN NNS IN NNP VBD RB JJ NN TO VB IN NNS . IN DT JJ CD POS , JJ NNS IN DT NNP NN NN IN NNP VBD TO DT NN '' IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . 
DT , IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN IN NNP , CC NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN NN CC NNS IN NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBD DT NN VBD RB JJ IN JJ NNS . DT JJR DT NN , DT JJR DT NN IN JJ NNS VBN TO VB PRP , CC DT RBR JJ PRP MD VB TO VB . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS , IN NNP NNP , NN . CC VB PRP VBZ RB JJ , '' PRP VBD . CC NNP NNP VBD IN NNS MD VB DT NN IN DT NN NN , RB IN JJ NNS WDT VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS . IN DT NN IN IN DT NN MD VB IN NN , DT NN PRP IN , PRP VBP , DT NN IN NN IN VBG NN VBZ VBN VBN . CC PRP VBP NN VBZ DT NN TO PRP$ NN , RB PRP VBP RB VB WP PRP$ NN VBZ , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP . 
NNP NNP VBD IN IN NN NNS IN NNS POS NN IN NN , DT NN IN NNS POS NNS RB VBZ IN DT CD NN VBG DT JJ NN IN DT NN POS NN . RB IN NNS IN NN , NNS VBP TO NNS IN DT NN IN WRB TO VB . DT NNS CC NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN IN WRB TO VB JJ NNS WRB PRP PRP VBP RB JJ . NNP NNP VBD IN DT JJ NN NNS MD VB VBZ TO VB TO VB PRP$ JJ NN RB , CC RB VB NNS IN PRP$ NNS . IN NNS TO VB IN PRP , RB , VBP RB VBN MD VB NNS IN PRP$ NNS VBP JJ . CC NNP NNP VBD EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN VBG IN NNS IN DT NN CC VBG TO VB JJ NN . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN CC NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD PRP VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS POS NN IN PRP$ NNS . PRP VBD IN IN DT NNS IN DT NN , NNS VBN IN NN CC JJ NNS IN NNS VBP VBN . PRP VBD IN PRP VBZ IN WRB RB JJ CC JJ DT NNS MD VB . 
DT NN MD VB TO DT NNS IN DT NN CC RB VB DT RB JJ NN . 
NNP NNP POS NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP , VBZ VBD PRP MD VB TO NN IN JJ TO VB NNP . TO VB IN DT JJ NN . NN , PRP VBD , JJ NNS RB VBP WDT VBZ VBN VBN IN JJ NNS : IN NNP NNP POS NNS IN NNP POS VBP VBN DT NNP NNP NN . '' VBD NN , CC NNP POS , VBP DT NN IN CD JJ NNS WDT VBD RB RB VBN IN NNS IN NNS CC JJ JJ NN . IN DT JJ NN POS NN , CD NNP NNP NNS IN DT JJ NNP , IN DT NNS IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , VBD JJR IN DT CD NNS IN NNP POS IN DT NN IN CD NNS . DT NN VBD JJ IN DT NN . DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBN IN NN POS NN NNS IN NNP NN TO DT CD NNS , CC VBZ DT JJ NN , VBD DT NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ DT IN DT VBN NNP JJ NNS . '' DT NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP . NN IN VBG DT JJ NN RB . 
IN DT NN NN NNS , DT NN IN NN NN CC NN VBZ VBN . IN NNS , NN NN RB VBZ IN NN . NNS VBP IN DT NN VBZ TO VB NNS , NN NNS , VBD NN CC JJR NNS IN NNS CC NN NN . DT VBZ WRB DT NNS , CC JJ NNP NNS , NN IN NNS IN JJ NN NN , CC NNP , MD VB NN CC VB DT NNS IN VBG , RB IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBZ PRP RB IN VBG NN IN NNS CC NN NN NN IN NNS . CC DT NN NN VBZ VBN NNP NNP CC JJ NNS TO DT JJ CC JJ NN : IN VBG JJR NN NN CC NNP , IN NNP NNP VBD PRP , VBZ POS JJ IN NN . '' DT JJ NNP CC NNP NNP VBP JJ NNS WDT VBP PRP NN IN NN NN . DT NNS VBP DT JJ NN POS NN IN JJ JJ NNS , RB : VBG JJ NN CC DT JJ NN VBN NN , DT NNS VBP TO VB JJ , NN CC NN . JJ NN MD RB VB DT JJ CC NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP , WP NNS NNP NN . 
DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBZ TO VB WRB PRP VBZ JJ NN NNS IN NNS IN VBG JJ JJ NNS TO VB PRP VB DT NN IN NNS RB IN DT NN , DT JJ NN NN VBZ . DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN DT NNP . MD VB JJ NNS RB VBG PRP IN DT NN IN JJ NNS VBG VBN , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN POS NNP IN NNPS CC NNP NNP . RB , DT NNP . VBZ VBN PRP$ JJ NNS TO VB PRP VB IN TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN POS NN VBZ IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ NNS WP VBP NNS NNS TO VB DT NN VBG NNS IN WRB NNS IN NN NNS VBZ VBN CC VBN . IN JJ NNS , DT NN , DT NNP NNP NNP , MD VB NNS TO VB DT JJ NN TO VB NN NN CC NN NNS VBP WRB TO VB NNS , NNS VBN IN DT NN VBD . 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , VBZ VBG TO VB DT NN IN NN TO NN . PRP VBZ NNS IN JJ NNP IN DT NN IN DT NN VBZ JJ TO DT NN : DT NN , PRP VBZ , WDT VBZ DT NN IN NN NN NN IN NN . NNP NNP , DT NNP NN , VBD IN NN NN . CC NN IN JJ NNS VBP RB JJ , '' PRP VBD . CC NNP NNP POS NN MD VB DT NN . '' IN IN NNP NNP , VBG JJ NN PRP VBD VBN IN JJ NNS IN PRP MD RB RB VB PRP WRB PRP VBD RB TO NN , IN DT NNP IN NNP . PRP VBZ VBN JJ CC JJ IN NNP . '' IN DT , '' VBD PRP$ NN , '' PRP MD VB RB , IN PRP VBD DT JJ RB , PRP MD RB VB PRP IN DT JJ NN . '' 
NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP , VBZ TO VB JJ NNS IN NN IN NN . IN NN , PRP VBD , NNS : CC NNS : VBP RB JJ IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN , CC DT NN MD : CC VBZ : VB DT JJ NN . IN DT , PRP VBD , DT JJ NN IN NNS IN DT NNP NNP VBD CD NN CD . CC IN JJ MD VB NNS VB NN , DT JJ CC JJR NNS IN DT NN POS NN VBZ VBN IN NNS . DT JJ MD VB JJ IN NN , NNP NNP VBD . EX VBZ DT NN IN PRP MD VB NN , '' PRP VBD , '' DT NNS VBP RB VB DT . '' NNS VBP . NNP NNPS WP VBP VBN WP PRP VBP IN JJ NN IN RB VBN JJ NNS VBP PRP VBP VBG JJ IN VBG NNS IN JJ NNS VBP IN NNS MD VB RB JJ IN PRP RB VBD TO . 
PRP VBD , NNS VBD IN DT NN , IN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS , VBG IN DT JJ JJ NN IN JJS NNS VBP VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NNS . CC WRB NNS VBD DT NNS IN CD NNS IN DT NNP NN , VBG DT NNS POS NNS , NNS CC NN NNS , PRP$ NN VBD RB JJ NNS CC RB JJ NNS WP$ JJ NNS VBD JJ CC WP$ NN VBD VBN RP IN DT JJ NNS WDT VBD VBN CC VBN IN DT IN PRP . DT NN IN NN NN CC JJ NN , JJ NN NNS VBP , VBZ JJ IN JJS NNS IN WDT NNS VBP VBN NNS IN JJ NN . IN DT NNS IN NNP , NNP , CD NNS RB , JJ NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . CC DT JJR NN IN WP VBD IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , JJ NNS VBP , MD VB JJR IN DT NNS IN DT NN IN JJ IN IN DT NNS CC JJ NNS IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , DT CD JJ NNS , WP VBD PRP IN VBG TO NN CD JJ NNS CC DT NN . 
RB RB , NNP NNP NNS , PRP CC NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NNS : NNP , JJ NN IN NNS VBP DT NN IN NNS WDT VBP VBN IN NN . CC JJ VBD NN IN NNS WDT VBP RB VBN VBZ TO DT NN IN NNS WDT VBP NN . DT VBZ JJ NN MD RB VB VBG . CC RB , PRP$ JJ NNS VBP IN DT JJ NN IN NN : VBG NNS IN NN CC NN : MD VB VB NN WRB DT NN VBZ . CC IN NN VBZ IN NN , PRP MD VB NNS JJR . CC JJ NNS VBP IN NNS VBP TO VB JJ IN PRP VBP TO VB WRB PRP VBP VBN . DT , IN NNP NNP , WP VBZ PRP DT NN , NNP NNP , CC NNP NNP VBP DT JJ NN VBZ TO VB DT NN CC VB DT JJ NN IN NN TO VB RP DT JJ NN . NNS , IN NNP NNP , VBP IN PDT DT NN , DT JJ NN CC DT JJ NNP NN , IN NN , VBZ NNS RB JJ IN PRP VBZ JJ NN VBZ RB JJ . 
IN DT NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP VBD RP IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP . RB PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP WRB NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD DT NNS IN DT NN . PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN DT NNP NNP , WP$ NN VBD NNP NNP . DT VBD CD NNS RB . JJ JJ NN , IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP VBD IN WP MD VB VBN IN JJ NN TO PRP . NNS IN JJ NN VBD VBN PRP$ NN IN PRP$ JJ NN . NNP CC NN VBD PRP IN VBG JJR IN CD NNS IN DT NN . '' VBZ DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBP RB VBG IN DT IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP$ NN : RB JJ NN . NNP NNP VBZ RB RB . IN CD CD NNPS VBP VBN IN NN . ( VBG TO DT JJ NN , DT NN MD VB TO JJR IN CD CD IN CD , IN DT NN NNS VBP JJR . ) NNP VBP DT JJR NN IN NNS IN VBG DT NN , RB NNS IN CD . CC DT NN NNS VBP VBG DT NN IN PRP$ NNS : JJR NNS VBG JJ NNS , CC RB , IN PRP$ CD POS RB IN IN PRP$ CD POS CC CD POS , WDT MD VB VBN TO JJR NN IN JJ NNS . 
CC NNS , WP IN JJ NN IN VBG MD RB VB JJ NNS , RB DT JJ , VBP JJ IN DT NN POS JJ NNS IN VBG JJ NNS IN NNS IN PRP$ CD POS CC CD POS . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD IN IN DT NNP . NN VBD IN JJ NN CD NNS RB POS NN IN DT NNS PRP VBD VBG MD RB VB VBN . '' VBZ NNS TO VB NN JJ IN NNP . NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , VBZ CD NN IN DT NNS VBD MD VB VBN . IN EX VBZ DT NN IN PRP VBP VBN DT NN TO DT NN RB JJ JJR IN NNS IN NN VBP NN IN NNS IN VBG DT NNS . '' EX VBP JJ NNS , RB . NNP NNP , DT NN , VBD RB IN DT JJ NN NN VBG NNS TO VB NNP POS NNP . '' NNP NNP VBD VBN JJ CC JJ NN IN NN NN IN NNP CD . PRP MD RB VB RB DT NN IN NNP . NN , '' NNP NNP VBZ VBN VBG IN DT NN . NNS MD VB CD IN IN CD NNS IN PRP VBP IN DT NN . '' 
IN DT NN , NNP . NNP VBD VBN , PRP VBD , VBG , '' VBD , NN VBZ RB VBG TO VB IN DT NN , CC PRP VBZ VBG TO VB VBN IN DT JJ NN . '' RB , PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN RBS JJ NN PRP VBD RB VBN IN DT VBD DT NN . '' NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN DT NN NN VBD JJ , RB VBN WRB RB VBD DT NN IN NN NN VBZ VBN . IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ NN IN VBN NNP , RB CD NN IN NNS VBD PRP VBD NN IN DT JJ NN TO VB NN CC NN NNS , RB IN CD NN IN CD . IN JJ NNS VBP VBN CD IN IN CD NNS VBG JJ NN NN IN NNS , DT NN IN JJ NNS VBZ DT JJ NN VBN IN NNS IN DT JJ NN , VBN IN JJ NNS . DT JJ NN , IN NN CC JJ NN NNS , VBZ VBG RB $ CD CD IN CD NNS IN NN NNS , IN NNS IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS , DT NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNPS IN NNP VBP VBN PRP IN VBG NN IN PRP VBP . 
DT NN IN NNS IN NNS IN DT JJ NN VBD RB VBG VBN RP JJ NN NN VBN IN DT NN IN VBG IN DT NNS IN JJ NNS WP VBP NNS . PRP DT VBD DT JJ NN CC VBG NN : MD PRP VB , RB . IN PRP$ NNS VBN IN NNS , DT NN IN NNS VBD TO VB , IN WDT NN NNS VBD VBN IN CD NNS : NNS WP VBD VBN PRP RB DT NN CC CD TO VB JJ NNS CC JJ JJ NNS IN NN CC DT WP VBD VBN PRP IN NNS . IN DT JJ , NNS VBD , JJ NN NN RB VBZ JJ . CC PRP VBZ RB VB RB NN IN PRP RB VBD IN DT NN POS JJ NN . CC DT NN VBZ RB VBN VBG NNS IN DT NN CC CD TO VB JJ NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP POS RB JJ IN PRP$ TO VB IN . CC IN PRP VBZ VBN IN NNS IN CD NNS , PRP VBZ NN TO VB . '' 
IN CD IN CD NNS CC CD IN CD NNS VBP DT JJ NN , DT NN IN CD NNPS VBN . NNP VBD DT JJ NN , CC IN DT , JJ CC JJ VBD DT NN , RB IN NNS , VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP , DT JJ CC NN NN NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP WDT VBD IN DT NN . NNP NNP , NN CC NN IN NN IN NNP NNP POS NNP NN NN , VBD RB VBN DT NN IN CD NNS IN VBG JJ NN NN IN NNP . IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD NNS IN PRP VBD PRP MD VB PRP$ NNS IN CD NN . '' VBZ VBP RB VBD DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' RB JJ IN DT NN . '' JJ NNS VBP VBN IN IN NNS VBP JJ TO VB PRP$ NNS TO DT NN PRP VBP RB JJ TO VB DT NN POS NN CC NN IN JJ NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP CC NN IN NNP NNP NNP . '' PRP VBD TO DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP CC NNS WDT VBD JJS NNS VBD NNS CD NNS IN DT NN . DT NNS VBD VBN IN CD IN DT NNS IN NNP NNP . 
NNP NNS WP VBP TO VB NNS IN NNS MD VB , IN NN , JJ NN , WDT VBZ VBN IN JJ NNS RB VBN IN JJ . '' DT JJ NN IN JJ NN VBZ JJ , DT NN IN JJ NNS JJ TO DT IN NN . CC NN , PRP VBZ TO NN IN NN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBN DT NN NNS IN NN . CC EX VBP VBN RB JJ NNS IN IN PRP VBZ JJ . '' NNP NN , IN NN , VBZ RB VBN IN NN . JJ NN IN DT NNS VBZ TO VB JJ NN , TO VB JJR NNS , '' NNP . NNP VBD . VB RB IN NN WDT VBZ JJ NN VBZ VBG TO VB NN NN , NN NN CC NN . IN NNS IN NN WP MD VB NNS CC JJ NN NN CC JJ NN , DT NNS VBP RB JJ , CC MD VB VBN . '' 
DT NNP POS NNP IN NNP VBZ VBN DT NN IN NNS VBN TO VB NN NNS ( JJ NN NN ) CC DT JJ NN IN VBG NNS VBG DT NN VBZ WDT VBP VBN TO VB JJ NNS ( RB VBN JJ CC NN NN ) . CC IN DT NN VBZ IN NN , VBD NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP , NNS MD VB JJ NNS IN VBG IN JJ NN . CC JJ NN IN DT NN MD VB NN , '' PRP VBD . JJ NN , RB , VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ VBN DT NN POS NN : CC VBN DT NN IN DT NN POS NN . RB , PRP VBZ DT NN RB VBN . IN DT NN MD VB DT JJ NNP IN DT NN VBG VBN , NNP VBZ RB NN . JJ IN DT NN , DT RB IN DT NN CC DT NN : DT NN , DT NN , DT NNS , DT JJ NN : MD VB JJ . DT NNP NNP CD 
NNP NNP , CD , WP VBD IN PRP VBD RB CD NNS IN CD NNS , VBD RB VBN IN DT NNS . IN PRP VBD RB , PRP VBD IN DT JJ NN NN IN NN . CC PRP VBZ RB VBN VBG DT NN RB . CC VBP VBN PRP IN CC PRP VBP PRP VBZ , '' PRP VBD . NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP IN IN DT VBG NN , DT NN JJ NN IN NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBD NNP NNP VBP DT NNP FW NNP CD NNS , VBD DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN . NNP NNP VBD PRP$ JJ NNPS IN CD , CD NNS IN VBG NNP NNP : PRP VBD RB VB PRP DT NN IN PRP VBD . 
NN VBZ VBN TO VB DT NN TO DT VBG NN IN VBG NNS , CC DT NNS , VBG NNS IN NNS IN DT JJ JJ NN TO NNS IN NNS DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN , VBP VBN DT NN IN PRP$ NN . CC NNP VBD PRP MD VB DT NN , VBD DT NNP NNP NNP , IN JJS IN DT VBG NNS VBN IN DT NN IN NNP . IN CD NNS CC CD JJ NNS VBD TO NNP POS NN IN PRP$ NN : DT NN MD RB VB WRB JJ NNS VBD VBN . JJ NNS VBD PRP MD VB DT NN IN CD CD NN NNS : DT JJ NNS IN NNP : TO DT RB JJ NN . DT NN VBZ JJ NNP NNS IN NNS , NN CC NNS CC DT NNS IN JJ NNS CC VBZ DT JJR NN NNP VBZ VBG TO VB JJ NNS . NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN WP VBZ DT RB VBN NN , VBD NNP POS NN IN DT RB JJ NN '' CC POS JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN RB VBG JJ TO NN . '' 
IN PRP VBD VBN JJ IN DT NNS PRP VBD IN VBG DT NN : DT NN VBZ IN DT JJ NN NN , DT VBG RP DT NNS CC NNS CC NNS , DT NN TO VB PRP WP PRP VBD PRP$ NN MD VB VBN . CC RB IN PRP VBD VBN NN JJ , PRP VBD VBN NN JJ RB : DT NN TO VB PRP$ NN POS NN RB RB RB JJ CC JJ . PRP VBD PRP , IN PRP VBP IN JJ NNS CC VBD TO PRP$ NNS IN DT NN PRP$ JJ NNS VBD , VBG TO VB WP NN IN NN PRP MD VB IN PRP$ NN , PRP$ NN , PRP . PRP MD VB DT NN NN VBG NN IN PRP , DT NN IN NNP NNP , IN VBG NNS CC DT JJ NN CC DT JJ , JJ NN . CC IN PRP , RB IN VBG IN DT JJ NN NN IN PRP$ NN POS , PRP MD VB IN NN . PRP MD VB TO VB DT NN VBD JJ , CC RB WRB PRP MD VB , CC RB WRB . CC IN DT , DT NN VBZ . IN DT NN VBG PRP VB RP DT NN , PRP MD RB VB PRP VB TO DT NN , MD RB VB DT JJ NN . 
NN IN DT , RB , VBD RB DT NN . DT NN VBD VBG , DT NN IN WDT NNP VBD RBR IN JJ TO VB IN NN . IN NN , PRP VBD , DT VBG NN PRP VBD VBG RB IN NNP : DT NN CC NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS : VBD RB DT NN , DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN NN . DT NN POS NNS , CC IN NN PRP$ NN , VBD DT JJ NN , CC DT NN VBD RB JJR IN PRP : NN JJ , IN NN , IN DT NN IN VBG CC IN NN . CC JJ NN MD VB TO VB PRP JJ TO VB RB DT NN NN CC RB DT NN , '' NNP VBD , CC RB TO VB RP WRB TO VB '' PRP$ NN IN DT JJ NN . IN DT NN , NN NN VBD DT JJ NN TO VB . CD RB , '' PRP VBD , VBZ DT NN IN JJ NN IN PRP VBP : JJ NN , JJ NN IN JJ NNS , NN IN JJ NNS . PRP MD VB PRP NNS , CC RB IN DT JJ NN , IN DT NNP NN IN NN IN , WDT NNS IN DT JJ NN . UH , VBG MD VB JJ TO DT JJ NNS , TO VB PRP$ NNS CC NNS . '' 
NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP NN , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , NNP . PRP VBP RB VB VBG IN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN PRP VBP IN PRP$ NNS . PRP VBZ CD IN DT DT NNS WRB PRP VBZ IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBZ JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ RB VB . PRP VBP VB TO VB NN , VBG IN NN CD . CC IN PRP VBP DT NN WP VBZ IN RB JJ NN IN NN NN , VBN IN PRP$ NN NN CC NN NN , RB PRP VBP PRP VBZ JJ TO VB IN NN CD . DT JJS NN VBZ VBG NNS IN PRP$ CD POS CC JJ CD POS TO VB VBN , IN DT VBZ WRB EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN , CC PRP VBP TO VB JJR NNS IN NN . NNP NN VBZ JJ . PRP VBZ RB DT NN , JJ NN , CC JJS NNS WP VBP PRP VBZ IN PRP CC RB IN PRP . 
CD NNS RB , NNP NNP NNP POS NN VBD DT JJ NN . UH JJR MD DT NN , NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , JJ NNS IN NN NN NNS . RB RB MD PRP VB IN NN NNS POS JJ NN NNS . RB RB MD PRP RB VBD NNP . IN RB IN , IN PRP VBD TO VB NNP NNP , PRP VBP NN . WDT VBD VBG TO PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT JJ JJ NN NN WP VBZ IN NNP . RB , PRP VBD NNS . CC , PRP VBD , PRP$ JJ NN POS NN NN VBD RB VBN CC DT NN VBD VBN IN NN . VB VBD TO VB RP PRP$ NNS IN RB CD NNS CC PRP MD VB VBG PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN PRP MD VB TO VB IN PRP VBD JJR NNS CC RB VBD RB TO PRP . '' RB NNP NNP VBZ VBN TO NNP NNP , CD IN DT VBG NN IN NNS WP VBP VBN PRP$ NNS TO NN NN NNS CC NN NNS . IN NN IN NN NNS , DT NNS RB VBP DT JJ NN IN NN : JJ NN NNS , RB , JJ NN NNS , CC DT NN NN WDT VBZ DT NNS . 
NNP VBD TO VB VBN IN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , VBN IN NNS , VBG DT RB JJ NN NN . CC RB , NNS IN NNP NNP TO NNP NNP NNP TO NNP NNP NNP VBP RB VBG PRP VBP VBD PRP , CC NNS IN NNS IN DT NN VBP VBG VBN , RB RB IN PRP$ CD POS CC CD POS , CC VBG PRP VBP PRP , RB . PRP VBZ , IN NN , JJ NN . CC DT NN IN DT VBG NN IN NNS WP$ NNS VBP VBN WRB PRP VBP JJ CC VBN TO DT NN VBZ WP TO VB IN PRP . NNP NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , '' IN DT JJ NN . '' IN PDT DT NN , JJ NNS WP VBP PRP VB TO VB PRP$ NN NN . CC IN PDT DT NN IN NN , DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN . DT NN VBZ RB JJ , IN NNS WDT MD VB RB RB PRP MD VB JJ VBD PRP RB IN NN NN WDT VBZ NNS RB JJ TO VB . NNS RB VBP IN JJS NNS VBP IN NN NN , RB IN PRP . NNP NNP , WP VBZ NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD , '' VBP IN NN IN JJR IN NN IN JJR NNS VBP DT NN NN . '' CC RB CD NN IN NNS NNS IN PRP , PRP VBD . CC VBP RB VBG NN NNS WDT VBP RB VBN TO VB . '' 
POS JJR '' VBZ DT RBS JJ NN IN DT , CC IN NN DT JJ NN IN VBG DT NN JJR IN PRP RB VBP VBZ VBG . CC NN '' VBZ RB VBN VBN TO VB VBG IN NNS , CC JJ NNS ( VBG NNP NNP , DT NNP NN ) VBP PRP VBZ DT JJ NN NN IN JJ CC NN NN . NNP NN VBZ DT NN , CC NN VBZ VBN RB , RB , IN VBG DT NN IN NN . RB CD IN DT JJ NNS IN NN , DT NNPS VBD DT NN PRP VBD PRP NNP NNP '' : NN IN PRP VBP CD JJ JJ . TO VB DT NN JJR '' NN DT NN RBR JJ , VB DT NN MD VB DT NN IN NN : PRP VBP RB VB IN PRP , CC DT JJR DT NN IN DT NN PRP VBP , DT JJR IN PRP PRP VBP TO VB JJ . DT NNS VBP RB VBN JJ . CD . NNP RB NNS , RB VBZ . NNS MD VB IN WP VBZ RB JJ IN NNS : DT NNS . NNP . NNP . : CC PRP VBP VB IN PRP VBP RB RB JJ IN PRP CC RB MD RB VB . RB , IN VBG DT JJ NN , PRP MD VB VBG RB JJR NNS , IN NN NNS ( IN NNS ) VBP RB JJR JJ NN '' IN DT JJ NNS PRP MD VB . NNS VBP JJR IN NNS , CC IN NNS ( NNPS '' ) VBP RB JJ IN NNS . NNP NNP VBD IN TO NN WRB PRP VBD VBG NN JJR IN DT NN IN DT NN . 
DT NN VBZ JJR JJ IN NNS IN NNS . NN CC NNP IN NNP CC NNP , DT NN , RB VBD IN IN PDT DT NNS VBN WP VBD DT NNP NNP NNP NN VBD NN , VBN IN CD NN IN DT NNS . NNS VBP RB JJ WRB . PRP MD VB IN NNS RB VB JJR NN IN NNS . DT NNS , VBN IN DT NNS NN NN , VB IN RB CD NNS IN NN CD NNS IN NN , CC RB RB CC IN JJ NNS TO VB PDT DT NN VBD IN NN . NNP NNP VBD IN NNS MD VB PRP$ NN NN '' RB IN NN IN VBG PRP CC RB VBG IN PDT DT NN IN DT NN CC IN DT NNS PRP VBP IN DT NN . RB PRP MD VB PRP RB TO VB DT NN IN NNS VBN IN NN . IN DT NN VBN , PRP MD VB DT NN IN NN IN DT NN . DT NNS RB VBP VBG DT NNS NN , IN NNP , WDT VBZ NNS CC NNS . NNS NNS VBP VB DT NN POS JJ NN CC VB NN VBN IN NN . 
IN CD IN DT RBS JJ NNS IN DT JJ JJ NN CC DT NNP NNP NN NN , JJ JJ NNP NNP MD VB VB DT NN NN CC NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNS IN DT NNS VBD NN . DT NN MD VB VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP , VBG DT $ CD CD NN IN DT NN NN POS NN . DT NN IN DT NN , WDT VBZ VBN TO VB VBN NN , NNS IN NN IN NNS IN NN VBG JJ NNS IN NNS CC NNS IN NN NN CC NN NNS , RB RB IN NNP NNP POS NN IN NN NN NN . DT NN RB VBZ DT JJ CC JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNP , RB IN DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBZ IN NNS WRB JJS NNS VBP NN TO VB NN , VB RB DT JJ NN CC JJ NNS IN WDT NNP VBZ RB VBN . 
CC PRP VBP IN JJ VBP TO VB DT NNS IN JJ NN . DT NNS VBP RB RB RBR JJ . NNS VBP JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC , PRP VBZ VBN IN VBG DT JJ JJ NNS VBP DT JJ NNS RB TO VB RP IN DT JJ NN NN NNS IN NNS POS NN IN WP NN VBZ VBN . VB NN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ VBG JJ IN IN NN . '' NN 
NNP NNP VBD VBG TO VB JJ NNP MD VB DT NN VBG PRP MD VB RB RB IN CD NNS IN PRP VBP RP IN NNS IN NNP CC NN , '' PRP VBD . IN PRP MD VB IN PRP MD VB RB RB IN CD NNS , RB RB RB IN CD NNS , RB CD NNS . PRP RB VBD PRP VBD IN DT NN . '' WRB NNP NNP POS NNS VBD RB IN PRP$ NN NNS , WDT PRP VBD VBN IN JJ NN NNS , PRP VBD NNS TO NNP . RB RB IN CD . PRP CC NNP NNP VBP IN PRP VBD VBN IN NNP CD WRB , IN NNP NNP , PRP VBD RB JJ CD NN PRP VBD VBG IN PRP$ NN CC PRP RB VBD RB VBN , JJ IN VBG , PRP VBD RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD DT NN CC NNS WDT VBD NNS TO VB NN , NN , DT JJ NN CC DT NN NN . 
NN VBD VBN DT JJ NNS TO VB DT NN IN DT NN CC TO VB DT NN POS NN IN DT NN VBD TO VB PRP . DT NNS VBD DT JJ NN CC , IN NN , VBD VBN TO CD NNS CC VBD NN IN CD NNS . IN DT NN , PRP VBD VBN IN NN , NN NN VBD VBN IN PRP$ NN , CC PRP VBD RB VBN IN JJ NNS . IN DT NN , CD NN IN NNS CC VBD CC VBD JJ CC RB JJ . CC IN DT NN , DT NNS WP VBD VBN RB VBN RB RBR NNS IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT WP$ NNS VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN . JJ NNS VBD DT NNS MD VB JJ TO NNS VBG NNS TO VB NNS IN JJ NN NNS , RB VBG IN NNS IN NN NNS CC NN NNS . JJ JJ NN NN NNS IN PDT PRP$ NNS , DT CD NNS DT NN , CC VBZ DT VBG NN IN NN CC NN IN NNS IN NN CD , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP . 
IN DT NN NNS , DT NNS IN NNP NNP NNP VBD IN CD JJ NNS , RB VBG PRP TO VB . JJS VBD IN DT NN CC RB . NNP VBD IN CD NNS , CC , IN IN DT JJ NNS , DT NN VBD IN VBG NN NNS . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBN RB IN DT NNS VBD RB VB DT NN NNS DT NN VBD . CC VBP JJ , '' PRP VBD IN DT NN NN . CC DT NNS VBD RB VBN . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBD , '' VBP VBN IN RB RB IN PRP MD VB , CC RB JJR . '' NNP NNP NNP , DT VBG NN IN NNP , NNP , VBD , '' CD VBD TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT , RB CD MD VB EX VBP DT NNS IN DT NN PRP VBP VBG : PRP VBZ RB VBN . '' 
VBG DT NN IN DT NN IN NNP , DT JJ CC JJ NNS VBD IN JJ NNS IN NNP POS NN IN CD IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT NNP POS NN IN NNP IN CD . IN DT NNS VBD NNP , DT JJ NNP NN CC JJ NN , WP VBD RP DT NN IN DT JJ NNS NN TO VB PRP . NNS RB VBD PRP$ NNS TO NNP NNP , NNP , IN RB IN VBG NNP IN PRP$ JJ NN . EX VBP NNS IN NNP VBD DT NNS IN NN VBG IN CD NNP NN TO DT JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP IN NNP POS JJ NNS VBD VBN IN NNP POS IN NNP NNP , DT JJ NN WP VBD DT NNS IN NNP , DT JJ NN , IN DT NN TO VB PRP . IN NNS IN NNP VBG IN DT NNS POS NN , JJ JJ JJ NNS VBP VBD TO VB VBN TO VB DT NN , WDT VBD RP IN DT NNP NN . IN DT , RB CD NNS , IN NNP TO NNP TO NNP NNP , RB JJ NNS IN NNP POS NN : NNS IN PRP VBP VBN IN NN . 
NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBN VBG IN JJR NNS IN NN IN DT JJ JJ NNS . PRP VBZ JJ TO VB DT JJR NNS MD VB JJR NN TO VB CC NN NN , PRP VBD , IN DT NNS VBP VBN IN . NNP NNP RB RB VB JJR NNS IN NN . DT NNS , PRP VBZ VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN , MD VB PRP IN RB CD TO CD NNS DT CD CC CD NNS . NN MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN NNS , RB , WDT VBP RB VBN IN DT NNS . DT NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN CC NN RB TO DT NN IN DT JJ NNS CC DT NN IN DT NN . DT VBP IN NNS MD VB JJR IN DT NN VBZ RB VB RB IN DT NN . CC VBZ RB JJ IN NN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP POS NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP . PRP VBZ NN RB VBD JJ NN TO VB IN PRP VBZ JJR JJ . NNP , DT . '' 
VBG TO DT JJ JJ NN IN NN NN IN NNS WDT VBD VBN JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD : NN VBD RB , RB , IN NN VBD VBG PRP , IN CD CD NNS IN DT NNP DT NN . CC RB PRP VBP IN RB RB VBZ PRP RB VB WP PRP VBZ VBN TO VB CC EX VBP DT JJ NNS . NNS VBP IN TO VB DT NN . PRP VBP DT JJS NN IN NN NN . CD NNS RB , CD NNS RB . NNP NNS CC DT NN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN VBZ RB RB CC DT NN , DT NN VBZ RB . '' NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , RB VBD NN . CC VB DT IN DT RB JJ JJ NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBG DT NN IN NN NN , PRP VBP IN JJ NNS WRB PRP VBD NNS IN IN NN NN IN NNS . PRP VBZ JJ IN PRP VBP RB VB RB TO VB NNS CC PRP$ NNS IN DT JJ NNS CC NNS IN NN NN . '' 
PRP VBZ DT JJ NN TO VB IN NNS VBP PRP$ NNS IN NN TO NN IN WP NNS MD VB TO VB JJ . CD NN , PRP MD RB VB VBG JJ NN NNS . DT JJ NN , DT NNS PRP VBP TO VB NN . CD NN , PRP VBZ JJ NN NNS IN DT NN WDT VBP VBG NN NN . DT JJ NN PRP VBZ JJ NNS IN JJ NN . PRP VBZ DT RB JJ TO VB DT NN IN NNP NNP POS NN CD '' IN WDT DT NN VBZ RP IN DT NN CC NNS WDT NN VBZ VBN IN PDT DT NN NNS PRP VBD VBN VBG RP VBP RB JJ TO NN . DT JJ NNS VBP NNS IN JJ NNS CC NNS . DT JJ NNS VBP NNS IN NN CC NNS . RB , NNS TO VB '' VBP VBG RB . PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB WRB WRB , IN NNS , NNS IN JJ CC JJ NNS VBP VBN IN NN CD JJ NNS IN JJ NN . 
DT JJ NN IN NNS VBN NN NNS VBD DT NN IN NNP . NNS IN CD . CC JJ NNS WP VBD DT NNS VBD TO VB JJ NN IN PRP$ NN , NNS , NNS CC NNS . NNP RB VBD DT NN : JJ POS RB '' IN NNP , CD NN NN : CC PRP VBD NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS . DT JJ NN CC JJ NN , VBN RB IN JJ NN CC JJ NN , VBD RB VBN IN DT JJ NN VBG DT NN IN NN NN . DT NNS VBD DT JJ NNS IN PRP VBD IN DT NN , VBN NN , MD VB PRP IN VBG NNP . CC NNP . CC VBG DT JJ NN VBZ RB NN IN DT JJ NN , VBG TO DT JJ NN IN NNP NNS . DT NN , VBN RB IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN DT JJ NN IN NNS WP VBD DT NNS VBD VBN IN NN , RB IN NNP . CC JJ NNS . 
IN DT , IN DT NNP , JJ NNS VBD DT JJS JJ JJ NN , CD , VBN IN CD IN NNPS , CD IN NNP Hispanic NNS , CD IN JJ Chicano NNS CC CD IN NNPS . CD NN VBZ VBN IN RB RB JJ JJ NNS VBP RB VBG RB VBN IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ VBN IN PRP VBP RBR JJ IN NNS TO VB JJ , JJ NNS CC IN PRP RB VBP RB VB DT NN CC NN PRP VBP TO VB NN IN NN . '' EX VBD RB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NNP NNS IN NNS CC NNS . NNP VBD DT JJ JJ NN IN CD , IN NNS VBD DT NN IN CD . VBG TO JJ NN IN NNP , DT NN VBZ JJ TO DT JJR NN : CC RB JJR NN : IN NNS WP VBP DT NN . IN DT NN IN CD , CD NN IN DT NNS VBD JJ CC CD NN VBD JJ . 
IN NN , JJ NNS RB VB TO VB RP IN NN NNS , IN VBG NNS CC NNS IN DT NN . PRP VBP IN NNS , JJ NNS , VBP JJ NNS CC VB PRP RP . IN DT , JJ NN NNS VBP TO VB . VB NNS , PRP VBP TO RB VB NN NN CC VB DT NN CC VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NNS VBP RP IN DT NN MD VB PRP$ NN IN DT NN CC NN NN IN PRP VBZ RB , VBZ RB VB , VBZ PRP$ NN NN CC VBZ DT JJ NN JJ IN NN CC JJ NNS . VB PRP$ NNS VBP JJ , PRP VBZ RB RBR TO RB VB IN PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD IN , IN PRP$ NN , JJ NNS WP VBD NN NN RB VBD DT NN PRP VBD JJ TO NNS . NNP NNP VBD JJ NNS MD VB VBN IN WRB RB PRP MD VB IN IN NN , VBN IN WP PRP VBD IN NNS WP VBD VBN VBG DT NNS . IN PRP VBP RB VBG DT NNS RP , DT NN IN DT DT WP VBD PRP VBD RB JJ RBR VBG DT NNS VBP VBG IN PRP VBD RB IN NN , '' PRP VBD . 
IN NN IN DT NNS POS NN , PRP VBD IN IN NNP JJS IN RB CD NNS VBN IN DT NN IN NNP NN , NNP , IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , DT NN IN VBG NNS , VBD PRP VBP IN DT NNP . POS NNS . JJ NNS VBD IN NNS MD VB DT NNS RB JJ VBZ JJ IN DT NN CC NN IN NN IN NN NNS , WDT VBD DT NN IN JJ CC JJ NN NN NNS IN DT CD . CD NNS IN DT NNS RP , PRP MD VB JJ IN DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP . NNS MD VB VBG IN IN JJ NNS CC RB VB IN PRP . '' PRP VBD VBG DT NNS MD VB JJ NN CC IN PRP MD VB PRP$ NNS VBP DT NNS . DT NNP , VBN IN DT NN NNS IN VBG DT NN VBZ RB IN DT NN , VBD PRP MD VB IN PRP$ NNS VBD VBG VBN . 
NNP NNP VBD DT NN NNS VBD RBR NN . DT JJ NN VBZ NNS WDT MD VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN , PRP VBD . 
NNP NNP NNP VBZ RB VBN IN JJ JJ NN NNS : PRP$ NN VBZ IN NN NNS . CC NNS IN RB DT NN IN JJ NN VBP VBN PRP , CC PRP VBP IN NN . VB RB VBP IN NNS WP$ NNS VBP VBN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN NNS PRP VBP MD VB VBN . PRP VBP JJ NNS VBP VBG TO VB PRP$ JJ NNS IN NN . '' IN PRP RB VBZ , PRP MD RB VB RB , NNS VBP . IN NN , IN PRP VBD IN NN JJ NN NNS IN CD NNS CC VBD DT NN , NNS VBP RB RB VBN DT NNS TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN . NNS VBP DT NN IN NN NNS VBZ JJ : DT NNS , IN NN , MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN . CC IN NN CC NN VBP DT NN IN NN NNS . IN RB RB VBN IN JJ NNS , DT NNS VBP RB JJ IN NNS VBP PRP VBP NNS , IN RB NNS , IN JJ NN IN JJ NN IN PRP MD RB VB IN VBG TO VB DT NN . 
POS NNP . VBZ VBN TO DT NN WRB DT JJ NN VBZ VBG DT JJ VBG , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP CC NNP IN NNP NNP CC DT NN IN DT NNP . POS NN IN NNS . '' DT JJ NN , NN VBZ RB VBN CC RB RB IN PRP VBZ , EX MD VB DT JJ JJ NN VBG RP IN DT NN POS NN . '' IN DT JJ NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP , PDT DT NN VBZ JJ CC JJ MD VB VBN IN DT NN POS NN IN DT NN . CC VBP VBN RB IN DT NNS IN NNP NNP , WRB NNS VBP DT JJ NNS IN NNS POS NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN TO VB IN NNS VBP RB VB DT NN TO VB PRP$ JJ NNS '' CC IN DT NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS MD VB NNS IN VBG NN . 
DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBD IN NN IN DT NN IN NNS TO VB , RB IN JJ NNS , VBD RB VBN VBN TO NNS . '' JJ VBD IN , '' PRP VBD , '' CD IN DT NNS IN PRP VBD VBZ IN NN VBD TO VB JJ IN NNS IN DT NNS RB IN NNS MD VB JJ IN NNS . '' IN NNS , DT NNP NN VBD NN NNS CC VBN CC VBN NNS . IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD IN NNS IN NNP VBD VBG JJ NNS IN VBG IN NNS . JJR RB , DT NN VBD IN DT NN NN , WDT VBZ VBN RB IN DT $ JJ NN , VBD RB VBN PRP$ NN NNS TO VB NN IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD NNP POS NN RB VBD PRP$ NN WRB PRP VBD PRP TO PRP IN DT NN IN NNP . NNP VBZ VBD IN PRP MD VB DT IN DT NNS VBN IN DT NN , VBG VBG DT NN NN VBN IN JJ NN . 
NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD JJ IN , DT NN , EX MD RB VB DT JJ NN NN , DT JJ JJ NN CC VBG NNS IN DT NN NN . CC IN PRP MD VB PRP , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP IN DT NNS NN VBD PRP VBD NNP NNP VBD JJ . MD RB , PRP VBP VBG DT NN IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN WP VBZ IN NN . NNP VBD NNS , NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP JJ , CC DT NNS VBD JJ . NNS VBP RB VB PRP VBZ DT JJ NN : PRP VBP RB VB WP PRP VBZ , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP . NNS VBP DT NN IN PRP$ NN . '' JJ JJ NNS VBD IN DT NNS VBD RB DT NN TO VB : DT NN , IN DT NNP NNP IN , VBZ VBN DT NN , IN JJ NNS . RB DT NNS VBP VBN , VBD TO NNP NNP , DT NNP . IN NN , WP RB VBD DT NN IN DT NNS IN NNP CD , CD , IN DT NNS IN NNP NNP . 
RB IN DT NNS VBP VBN PRP$ NN , NNP NNP VBD , DT NN , IN PRP VBZ PRP , VBZ IN RB NNS MD VB JJ NNS IN NN WRB VBG IN TO VB IN DT NN NNS IN PRP$ NN . NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBN , VBD IN NN PRP VBD DT NN NN : DT NN WP VBD DT NN NN IN CD CC DT NN WP VBD NNS : PRP MD RB VB NN . '' CC POS PRP$ NN VBD IN CD CC PRP$ NN IN CD CC PRP VBD DT NN NN IN JJ NN , '' PRP VBD , '' PRP MD RB VB RB JJ . '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD DT NN . CC JJ NN IN DT NN , PRP VBZ TO PRP , VBZ JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . WP VBZ RB VBN JJ DT NNS VBZ RB DT JJ NN . '' NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP NNP NN NN JJ NNP IN DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN VBD RB IN CD NN TO DT NNS IN VBG RB JJ . DT NN , IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN NN VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN , RB IN PRP VBD JJ DT NN . ( IN DT NN VBD RB , DT NN VBD IN NNS IN NN : RB NNS IN NN : VBN IN JJ NN NNS : PRP VBD IN NNS WP VBP RB VBN VBP DT JJR NN IN DT IN JJ NNS . ) 
JJ NNS IN NN NN JJ JJ NN IN VBG PRP$ NNS VBN . IN NNS IN NNS IN JJ NN MD VB RB IN DT NNS , CC RB VBZ VBN DT JJ NN TO VB WDT NNS WDT MD VB . NNP , JJ VBP DT NN NN , WDT MD VB JJ NN NNS . CC DT JJ NN VBZ PRP MD VB JJ TO JJ NNS JJ NNS IN VBG DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS . NNS IN NNP CC NN : NNP CC DT NNP NNP NNP RB VBD IN JJ JJ NNS VBD IN NNS WDT MD VB IN DT NN : RB VBG NN : CC DT WDT MD RB . DT NNS VBP JJ , CC NNS VBP PRP MD VB CD TO CD NNS IN DT NN MD VB VBN IN JJ NN NN . CC DT NN VBZ CD IN JJ JJ NNS VBG TO JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN VBG IN WRB NNS VBP VBN . 
DT NN , JJ NNS VBP , VBZ TO VB DT NNS IN NN NNS TO VB NN NNS . EX , VBD NNS MD VB VBN IN JJ NNS CC VBN TO VB NNS IN JJ NN . IN DT JJ NN , IN PRP$ RB VBN NNS , DT NNP NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN NNS TO VB NNS . CC RB IN PDT DT NN IN NN , JJ NNS VBP RP IN NNS WDT VBP RB JJ TO VB PRP , IN NNP NNP VBD IN NNP . PRP VBD PRP MD VB VBD NN IN NNP IN DT NN NN NN . DT JJ NN VBD RB : DT NN POS NN NNS VBD TO VB DT NNS IN NN NNS TO VB NN NNS . RB , NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN POS NN IN NN JJ NNS , VBD DT CD IN NNP POS CD NNS IN PRP VBD TO VB DT NN NN . IN CD VBP VBD UH , NNS VBP VBN . 
DT NN IN DT NN VBZ RB JJ . WP PRP VBP RB VB , PRP VBZ , VBZ WRB JJ PRP VBZ , WRB JJ VBZ PRP VBZ VBN CC WRB JJ PRP VBZ PRP TO VB DT NN . IN PRP VBD , PRP VBD , PRP$ NN VBG IN NN , PRP MD RB VB DT NNS PRP VBP . DT NN IN PRP$ NN MD VB VBN NN NNS : CC RB PRP VBZ PRP : CC RB , PRP VBZ PRP . IN RB DT NN RB , NNS POS NN IN VBN NN NNS VBZ VBN RB VBN . CC RBR RB , PRP VBZ , DT IN DT NN VBZ VBN IN NNS . DT NNS , RB VBN TO VB NNS IN NN NNS PRP , VBP RB VBN TO DT NNS POS NN IN VBG IN DT IN PRP$ JJS NNS , NNS VBP . DT NNS VBP RB VBN IN NNS WP , IN PRP$ NN VBZ DT NN IN DT NN NN , VB PRP IN RB JJ NN RB IN PRP MD RB RB VB IN DT NN . 
DT NNP . PRP VBP RB VB TO VB DT JJ NN IN IN PRP , '' VBZ NNP . '' VBP JJ PRP VBP JJ , CC PRP VBP RB VB TO VB DT NNS . DT RBR JJ NN VBZ , MD DT NN NN NNS IN NNS IN DT NN TO VB RP WRB DT NNS VBP . NN MD VB DT NN IN NNP . '' : DT NNP IN NNP NNP . EX VBZ DT NN TO DT NN IN VBZ JJ JJ NN , CC NNP MD VB IN VBG DT NNS IN NNS MD VB JJ NNS . CC DT VBZ RB DT NN IN NN VBZ RB VBN VBN IN DT NN , '' NNP VBZ . VB PRP VBZ JJ IN DT IN DT JJ NNS MD VB . DT VBZ RB JJ NN , PRP VBZ RB JJ NN NN NN CC EX VBZ DT JJ NN NNP . NN WDT VBZ CD WDT RB MD VB RB JJ NN . '' '' RB , RB IN DT NN IN NN VBZ RB IN DT NN , JJ NNS MD RB VB IN VBG NN TO PRP . '' VBP VBN RB JJ NNS PRP VBD RB TO VB RB , IN IN PRP VBP JJ , PRP VBP RB JJ , '' VBZ NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP CC DT JJ NN IN JJ NN . JJ NNP , IN DT NNP IN NNP , WP VBZ VBG DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS IN NN IN WDT IN CD NNS VBP VBN , VBZ PRP VBZ VBN IN DT NN VBZ JJ CC IN VBG PRP VBZ DT JJ NN WDT VBZ CC NNS MD VB . VB IN , PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB DT NN IN NNS IN PRP MD VB , '' PRP VBZ . '' WDT VBZ RB VB PRP MD RB VB PRP . '' 
RB , JJS NNS VBP IN IN NNS IN NN VBP JJ , PRP VBP RB RB JJ RB , IN JJ NNS : DT VBZ IN DT NN . JJ NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP IN DT NN NN CC JJ NNS VBD DT VBN NN IN DT NN WP VBZ VBN NN IN DT NN . PRP VBZ NNP NNP NNP , RB NNP . 
IN DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBZ VBN IN NNP NNP NNP : DT NNP NNP NN WDT VBZ RB VBN VBN CD IN NNP NNP POS JJS : TO VB TO VB DT NN IN NNP CC JJ JJ NNS VBG IN DT NNP NNP . IN DT NN RB VBD NN IN NNP CC DT VBZ RB VBN IN NN IN NNP IN CD NNS , NNP NNS CC NNS VBD IN DT NN NN IN NNP POS NNP IN NNP NNPS TO VB DT JJ CC JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN POS NNS CC RB VBP NN POS NNS IN NNP POS NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNPS . PRP VBP VBN JJ NN NNS RB RB IN NNS TO VB NN NNS , NNS CC JJ NNS . DT CD NNS VBP RB DT NN IN NNS RB RB , CC PRP MD RB VB RBR JJ . IN CD IN DT RBS JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNPS , NNP VBZ RB JJ NNS IN JJ NNS CC NNP NNS IN CD CC JJ , IN NNS NNS IN DT JJ NNS NN VBP RB JJR . NNP , IN CD NNS , IN DT NNP NNP IN CD NNP , VBZ DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN CC DT JJ , JJ IN WP JJ JJ JJ CC VBP VBN JJ NN IN NN . 
JJ JJ NNS IN NN NNS CC DT NN IN NNS VBP . IN NN , EX VBD CD NNS IN NNS IN WDT NNS VBD , DT NN IN IN CD NN VBN IN DT NN IN NNS . NNP NNP VBD DT IN DT NNS MD RB VB VBN TO DT NN RB RB IN JJ NNS IN NNS TO VB NNS IN RB JJ NNS . IN DT NN RB VBN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS VBD DT NN NN IN CD NN IN NNP NNS WP VBP NN NNS DT JJ NNS RB . PRP VBD PRP$ JJR NN MD VB JJ NN NNS : IN NN , PRP$ NN VBD NNS IN DT NNS IN DT NN , RB RB IN DT JJ NN , IN DT NN NNS RB VBZ . PRP RB VBD IN DT CD NNS VBN IN DT JJ CD NNS TO DT JJ NN VBD JJ , VBN DT NN IN NN NNS VBD , VBG IN PRP MD VB IN NNS VBP RB VBG TO VB NNS IN DT NN . 
PRP$ NN NN VBZ , IN NN , DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBG VBN IN NNP NNP POS JJ , RB JJ NN NNS . CC PRP RB VBZ NN RB RBR JJ : NNP NNP , IN NNS WP CD NN NN VBN CD DT NN IN DT JJ NN NNS IN NNP NNP CC NNP , '' VBZ RB VBG TO VB IN DT NNS IN PRP$ JJR JJ JJ NNS . VBG RB VBD DT NN IN NNP NNP NNS IN NNP NNP IN JJS JJ CC JJ JJ NNS , JJ IN NNP NNP POS JJS NN NNS VBP RB VBG DT JJ NN IN DT JJ JJ NN . PRP VBP VBG TO VB NNS IN DT JJ , JJ NNS IN WDT NNP NNP NN NNS VBP NN JJ , IN NN , NN NN , JJ NNS CC DT NN IN JJ NNS . TO VB RB , NNP NNP NNS VBP VBN TO VB : CC RB NN : JJ NN , RB RB IN NNP NNP CC IN IN DT NN , VBG JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN TO VB JJ NN NNS IN NN IN NNS IN DT JJ JJ NN NN . 
IN DT JJ NN , JJ NNS VBD , DT NN IN NNP POS NN VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP NN JJ NNS RB , WRB NNS VBD IN DT NNP NN , NNP , VBD DT NN : DT NN WDT VBZ NN : TO VB . NNP NNS VBD IN DT NN , VBG IN NNS TO VB DT NNP . NN . RB JJ NNS VBP IN DT NN CC VBP DT JJ NN IN NNP NN . NNP VBZ RB DT NN , CC PRP$ NN IN VBG VBZ JJ TO DT NN IN DT NNP . NN . CD NN , DT NN IN NNP POS NN VBZ RB VBN VBN DT JJ NN IN NNP NNS VBD VBN , '' NNP NNP VBD . '' VBZ IN VBG IN NNP POS NN IN DT NNP . NN NN VBD IN NNP NN . '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP POS NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD EX VBD DT NN IN DT JJ JJ IN DT NN . 
PRP RB VBD DT NN VBN NNP NNP NNP NNP '' CC VBD RB VBN TO NNP NNP . CC VBD TO VB JJR , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN . '' . NNP RB VBD PRP . PRP VBD PRP JJ IN DT NN IN NNS PRP VBD RB JJ IN IN NNP . '' NNP NNP VBD IN JJ NNS IN DT NN NN IN DT NNP WRB DT NN VBD NNS IN NN NNS VBD VBN VBD VBN PRP$ NN . WDT VBD RB JJ , '' PRP VBD . NN IN WP VBD NNP NNP TO DT NN VBD IN DT NN MD VB NNS IN PRP$ NN . NNP NNP , WP VBD IN DT NN NN NN CD NNS RB , VBD : VB VBD WP PRP VBD IN RB TO VB WDT NN TO VB TO , CC PRP VBD RB VBN . CC NN IN PRP$ NN VBZ TO VB NN PRP MD TO VB JJ NNS IN DT NN , CC IN PRP MD VB PRP$ NN TO VB PRP , PRP VBP VBP VBG TO VB PRP . '' 
CC DT NN VBZ , NN IN DT MD VB RB RB JJ IN PRP VBZ IN IN DT NNS JJ NN VBZ RB DT NN . IN DT NNP . NNS JJ NN IN NN , CC RB IN DT NN VBD IN DT NN , NNS MD VB NN IN DT NN RBR CC CC IN PRP VBP . NNP , WDT VBZ RB VBN IN JJ NN , MD RB VB VBN RB IN DT NN , IN PRP VBZ RBR JJ IN NN IN JJ NNS . NNS VBN IN NN IN NN IN DT NN VBN NN , WDT VBZ VBN VBN IN CD IN DT NN IN NN CC JJ NNS CC RB IN DT NN , VBP RB JJ IN DT JJR IN CD NNS IN DT NN . ( DT JJ NN IN NN VBZ IN PRP VBZ JJR CC VBZ RBR JJ IN NN : DT NN WP VBZ PRP MD VB RB JJ IN CD NNS RB . ) 
CC NNP NNP VBD IN RB NN IN DT IN JJ NN VBD JJ NN NNS IN NN , JJ NN NN , VBZ , JJ NN NNS CC NN . WRB PRP VBZ IN DT JJ TO VB DT JJ NN NNS RBR PRP VBZ IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN WP$ NN VBZ RB RB VBN IN JJ NN . 
IN NN VBZ DT NN IN NNP JJ , RB NNP MD VB TO VB . IN PRP$ NN , NN CC NNP NN DT NN IN DT NN CC IN JJ NN . IN VBG IN NN IN NNS IN NN WRB PRP$ NN MD VB RBR JJ , PRP VBP IN NNP VBZ PRP$ JJ NN . IN JJ NNS RB , IN PRP$ JJ CC IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP , WDT PRP VBD VB , PRP VBP VBD DT NN TO VB IN NNS TO VB PRP$ NN . JJ NNS VBP RB VBN PRP IN JJ NNS , NN , NN , NN . PRP VBZ PRP$ NNS IN NN , RB , WDT VBP VBN RB JJ . IN DT NNS DT JJ NN NN VBZ VBN , DT NN IN NNS CC NNS , TO VB WRB NN MD VB NN NN . DT NN RB VBZ RB TO VB NNP NN CC JJ : CC RB TO VB NNS TO NNP : CC RB TO VB DT NNS IN IN DT JJ NN , VB PRP$ JJ NNS , CC NN DT NNS IN NN WP MD VB PRP JJ . 
CC IN JJS VBN IN VBG MD CD NN VB VBN TO VB JJ NN IN VBG NN NNS , DT JJ JJ NN VBD NN IN JJ NNS . PRP VBD RB VBN IN DT NNS VBD VBN TO VB RB JJ JJ JJ NNS , CD IN DT . NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ JJ NN WDT VBZ VBN TO VB JJ NN , VBD IN DT JJ CC JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS NN IN VBG JJ NNS TO VB NNS . DT NN RB VBD IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN POS NN CC NN MD VB $ CD . TO VB NNS , NNS VBP TO VB PRP IN NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS , VB VBN IN NN TO VB WRB DT NNS VBP JJ TO VB IN DT NNS CC RB VB NNS TO VB DT NNS IN DT JJ NN . NNP NNP NNP VBD IN NNS CC VBD PRP DT NN , CC VBD RP IN RB CD NNS . DT NN VBD PRP$ NN IN NNP , NNP NNP VBD , IN PDT DT JJ NNS . '' . 
NNP NNP VBD VBG JJ VBZ JJ . EX VBZ JJ NN TO VBG NN NN : NN , NN , VBG NN NN , VBG NN NNS , '' PRP VBD . MD RB VB DT JJ NN NNS IN JJ NN CC NN , WDT VBZ NN , JJ NNS CC RB VBP VBN TO RBR NN NN . '' , DT NNS VBP VBN JJ TO VB NN , TO VB VB JJ IN DT NN CC NN , TO VB NN IN NNS CC TO VB NNS IN NNS . DT NNP POS NNP VBZ CD IN DT NNS NNS MD VB IN NN . NNS MD VB ( CD ) CD TO VB DT NN NN IN PRP$ JJ NN . DT NN VBZ DT NN NN , NN NN , JJ NNS , DT JJ NN NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP NNP . EX VBZ RB DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NN , VBN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNPS CC VBN IN DT NNP POS NNP IN NNP CC DT NNP NNP NNPS IN NNP . PRP VBZ JJ NNS DT NN : NN IN DT NN IN WP MD VB DT JJ , JJ NN , IN VBG NNS VBP DT JJ NN CC DT JJ NN NN IN DT JJ CC NN NN . 
NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBN VBG IN JJR NNS IN NN IN DT JJ JJ NNS . PRP VBZ JJ TO VB DT JJR NNS MD VB JJR NN TO VB CC NN NN , PRP VBD , IN DT NNS VBP VBN IN . NNP NNP RB RB VB JJR NNS IN NN . DT NNS , PRP VBZ VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN , MD VB PRP IN RB CD TO CD NNS DT CD CC CD NNS . NN MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN NNS , RB , WDT VBP RB VBN IN DT NNS . DT NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN CC NN RB TO DT NN IN DT JJ NNS CC DT NN IN DT NN . DT VBP IN NNS MD VB JJR IN DT NN VBZ RB VB RB IN DT NN . CC VBZ RB JJ IN NN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP POS NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP . PRP VBZ NN RB VBD JJ NN TO VB IN PRP VBZ JJR JJ . NNP , DT . '' 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WP$ VBG NNS IN NN NN VBD PRP TO VB DT NN VBD DT JJ NN IN VBG JJ NN IN JJ NN , VBD IN NNP CD IN PRP$ NN IN NNP , NNP , IN NNP PRP VBD CD . DT NN VBD JJ NN NN , PRP$ NN VBD . IN CD , NNP NNP ( JJ NNP ) VBD DT JJ NN IN NN IN JJR IN CD NNS VBG IN JJ NNP NNP . IN CD JJ JJ NNS , NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP , CC JJ NNS , PRP VBD JJ NNS CC PRP$ NNS , VBG NN CC VBG DT NN TO VB DT NNS IN NN . DT NN , WDT VBZ , VBD VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP . NNP IN VBG IN VBG DT NNS IN PRP$ JJ NNS , NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS VBD PRP$ NNS CC VBD PRP IN NNS , VBG CC JJ JJ NNS . PRP RB VBD NNS IN DT NN NNS RBS RB VBN IN PRP$ NNS , CC VBD DT NNS IN PRP$ NN IN NN . 
POS POS IN VBG NN CC RB VBG PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBP VBN DT RB NN . DT JJ NNS VBP JJ . CC RB PRP MD VB PRP RP IN JJ RB , PRP VBP RB VB RP . PRP VBP VBN NNS IN PRP$ NNS , WRB PRP VBP JJ , PRP MD RB VB IN TO VB PRP$ NN IN NNS . '' NNP NNP , CD , VBZ VBN JJR IN DT NN NNS IN DT IN PRP$ NNS VBD VBN IN CD , VBG TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN NN . PRP RB VBZ IN NNS IN NN CC NN NNS TO VB TO PRP$ VBG NN IN NNP NNP POS NN , CC IN JJ NN NNS CC NNS DT CD NN IN DT NNS . WRB DT NN VBD IN RB IN DT NN IN NNP NNP , NNP NNP VBD PRP IN NN . CC VBD VBG TO VB RP WRB PRP VBD , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN IN CD VBG DT NN . CC RB VBD IN IN DT NN . '' 
DT NN POS NNS VBP VBN VBN IN CD NNS . DT JJ VBD CD NNS RB WRB DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBD RB VBN RP IN IN NNS VBG DT VBN NN IN NN NNS , NNS CC NN NN IN NNS VBG DT NN NN . IN DT JJ CD NNS , NNS WDT VBD RB VBN : TO CD CD IN CD : JJ . NNS IN NNS JJ VBD CD NN IN NNS IN NNP , DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN WDT VBD DT NN IN DT NN , VBD CD NN , VBG TO DT NN VBN DT NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP . JJ NN VBN IN NN NNS VBD IN CD CD NNS VBD NN NN IN CD , CC IN VBD VBN TO CD CD IN NNP CD . NNP NNP , NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , DT JJ NN NN , VBD IN NNS VBN TO VB RB VBN IN JJ NNS CC JJR NNS VBG IN JJ NNS . IN PRP VBP VBN IN RB VBZ NNS VBG JJ NNS IN NN , '' PRP VBD . 
DT NN POS NN NN , NNP NNP , VBZ PRP DT NN NN IN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . '' CC NNS VBP RB RBR JJ . DT NNS VBP IN PRP MD VB VBN CC PRP$ NN VBN . NNS VBP VBG IN PRP$ NN , VBG PRP VBZ RB TO VB JJ NNS IN NN IN DT NNS CC JJ NNS CC DT NN IN NNS MD VB VBN . CC MD VB TO VB PRP VBD IN NNS VBP VBN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN VBD IN JJ NN . DT NN VBZ VBN NNP POS NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP POS NN . RB , NNP NNS VBP VBG IN NNS , NNS , NNS , NN NNS CC DT NN IN VBG JJ NNS . DT , PRP VBP , MD VB NNP IN DT NN CC VB DT NN WDT VBD NNP POS NN CC VBD DT IN NNP . NNP VBZ TO VB JJ IN NN IN CD . IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN NNS , JJ NNS MD VB JJ TO VB IN PRP$ NN TO VB WP JJ NNS VBP IN NNP POS NN CC WRB NNP POS NNS IN JJ NN VBP PRP$ NN IN NN . 
IN JJ NN , DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN VBG DT NN , CC DT NN MD VB PRP MD VB JJR TO VB IN NNS IN PRP VBZ VBN IN JJ NNS . CC NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP VBZ RB RB JJ . IN DT JJ NN IN NN , PRP VBZ RB RBR JJ TO VB NNS IN NNS , '' VBD NNP . NNS VBP RB VB CD NNS IN DT NN VBG VBN NN IN NN . DT IN DT JJ NN PRP VBP VBN VBG IN : WRB JJS TO VB JJ NN , WRB TO VB PRP RB TO DT NN : VBP JJ NN IN DT NNP . NN . '' RB DT IN DT JJ NN NNS , RB , VBP VBN TO JJ NNS IN JJ CC JJ NN IN DT VBG NN . DT WP VBP VBG TO JJ NNP . NNS : VBG IN NNS IN DT JJ , RB : JJ TO VB DT NNP . NNS VBP RB IN JJ NNS , RB DT JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . 
CC NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP , VBD DT JJ NN VBD PRP JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ NN VBD TO VB PRP IN DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN NN IN CD NNS . NNP NNP NNP , CD , DT NN IN NNP , NNP , VBZ PRP$ NN CC NNS VBD IN PRP VBG JJ NNS CD NNS RB '' NN VBP RB VB PRP , '' '' NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD PRP . CC PRP VBD IN NNS IN NN VBD RB VBN PRP$ JJ NN NN . VBG VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN : CD WDT VBD RB VB DT JJ NN IN CD NNS IN PRP : PRP VBP PRP$ NNS CC VBD DT NN PRP VBD WP VBD JJ TO VB DT $ CD JJ NN . CD VBD PRP$ NN RB '' IN VBG DT NNS , VBD NNP NNP , WP VBD RP DT NN IN PRP$ NN IN JJ NNS . 
DT NN VBD IN DT NN MD VB JJ NN NNS TO VB RP DT NN CC VB PRP , VBG NN IN DT NN . DT NNS VBD RB IN NN , CC DT JJ NNS RB , DT NNS IN DT NN , NNP NNP CC NNP , VBD JJ NNS IN NNS . CC WRB , IN CD , DT NNS VBD JJ NNS IN DT NN CC JJ NN , DT NNS VBD RB VBN . DT NN IN NNS VBN RB VBD TO CD . NN CC NNP VBP TO VB DT JJR IN CD JJ NNS WP VBD DT NNS , CC PRP VBP VBD DT NN . CD NN IN DT NN VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP CC NNP NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , WRB CD NNS JJ NNS . WRB DT NN VBD DT NN RB IN JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD TO VB PRP$ NN TO VB RP IN DT NN VBD VBN PRP$ NNP POS . PRP$ NN NN VBD DT NN IN JJ NNS CC VBD PRP IN DT NN . 
DT NN VBZ IN DT NN NN VBZ JJ : RB IN CD CC CD NN IN NNS VBP IN VBG DT NN NN IN NNS IN JJ NNS : RB JJ , IN NN , IN PRP MD RB VB VBN TO JJ NN IN JJ NN , RB IN PRP VBP RB RB VB WRB PRP VBZ . IN NNS , JJ NN VBN IN RB NN CC DT NN NN . DT NN WP VBD RB IN DT NN : CC DT NN IN NN NN , NN NN , JJ JJ CC DT IN DT JJ VBG NNS IN DT JJ NN : VBD RB RB IN NN IN PRP CC IN IN PRP$ JJ NN . JJ NNS VBN IN DT NN CC IN DT NN IN DT JJ NNS VBG PRP , CC DT NN VBD PRP NN CC DT NN VBD VB PRP RB . EX VBD NNS : NNS , IN NN IN NN , DT NN IN NN CC NN IN NN NN , WDT RB VBN . CC RB NN , IN PDT DT NNS IN DT NN MD VB VBN TO DT NN IN DT NN , '' IN NNP NNP NNP VBD IN CD , PRP MD VB PDT DT JJR IN NN : CC PDT DT JJR IN DT NNS . '' 
DT NN VBP NN IN DT NNS . DT JJ NNS IN DT NN NN IN DT NNS VBD DT NN POS NN IN VBG NN NN : DT NN IN JJS NN : IN JJR IN DT NN IN DT NN IN NN , DT JJ NN . CC IN DT NNS VBP VBN IN NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS , DT NN VBZ IN NNS IN NNS IN NNS IN NN NN CC JJ NN , DT JJ JJ NN NN . DT JJ NN VBZ VBN DT NN RB IN DT NNS CC NNS IN VBG NN RB , DT NN IN NN IN CD CD JJ NNS WP VBP VBN NNS . DT NN IN DT NN MD VB . DT VBG JJ NN VBZ TO VB IN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ JJ , RB IN NNS WRB JJ NNS VBP JJ , JJ IN DT NN IN NN CC NN NNS . CC JJ NN TO VB DT NNS IN NN , DT NN RB VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN , MD RB VB JJ . WDT MD VB DT NN NN TO DT JJ NN PRP RB VBD : IN DT NN NN CC JJ NN IN NN , VBN IN JJ NNS WDT VBP RB VBN TO VB JJ , VBD PRP TO VB NN . 
CC IN TO IN NNP NNP VBZ DT JJ NN IN IN NN CC DT NN IN DT JJ NN CC JJ NNP NNP . '' NN MD VB RP , '' NNP NNP VBD . '' VBZ IN DT NN NN . PRP MD VB NN . CC PRP MD VB RP . '' 
NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP NNP VBD NN IN PRP VBD VBN DT JJ NN NN IN DT JJ NN CC PRP$ NN NN CC NN NNS . DT JJ NN , WDT VBZ JJ TO DT NN NN VBN IN DT NN , MD VB NNS IN JJ JJ NNS IN RB CD NN , VB PRP IN NN NN NNS CC VB PRP VB IN PRP$ NN CC NN NN VBZ JJR IN CD NNS DT NN . CC DT NN RB VBZ NNP . POS JJ NN , VBG PRP VBD NN IN JJ NNS IN WDT VBZ NN NNS MD VB CC WRB JJ NNS MD VB IN PRP$ NNS . DT NN VBZ RB JJ NNS IN NNP , NNP CC JJ JJ JJ NNS VBP RB VBG NN NN . DT NNP . NN VBZ VBN TO VB DT NN . CC VBD JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NNP . POS NN . CD JJ NN VBD VBN DT NN RB . '' 
DT NNP NNP NNP 
IN NNP NNP TO NNP NNP , JJR NNS VBP VBG JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS , RB IN JJ NN VBZ RB IN DT NN NNS . IN NN , PRP MD VB JJ NNS IN NNS CC NNS CC JJ NN NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN , IN IN DT . CC RB IN IN DT NN VBZ , NNS CC NN NN NNS VBP RB JJ IN DT JJ NNS . RB , IN JJS CD NNS VBP VBN IN DT JJ CD NNS VBG NNS DT NN : IN DT NN IN NNS CC NNS IN NNS : TO VB DT NN IN NN CC NN JJ NN RB RB IN DT NN PRP MD VB IN DT JJ TO VB DT NN . NNP JJ NNS , RB , RB VBN NN TO VB JJ NNS , VBP VBG JJR NNS IN DT JJR JJ NN VBD CC NN . DT NN NNS VBP IN VBG CC JJ NN , IN RB JJ , VBZ DT JJS , JJS JJ NN TO DT VBN NN NN . 
IN CD , NNP VBZ TO VB DT NN POS RBS JJ NN IN DT NNS IN NN . VBG RB TO DT NN WRB NNS MD VB PRP$ JJ NNS CC VB DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS IN VBG JJ NNS , DT NN NNS VBP TO VB DT NN IN JJ NN IN CD NNS , VBG PRP$ NN . DT NN , IN DT JJ CD TO CD NNS , VBZ TO VB RP DT NN IN NNS CC DT NN NN TO VB JJ NNS . IN JJS CD NNS VBP VBG JJ NNS , IN NN JJ NNS , CC VBP RB VBN PRP . NNP , DT NN , VBZ VBN JJ NNS CC NNP NNS IN CD JJ NNS TO VB NNS WDT VBP IN NN . PRP MD RB VB DT JJ NN IN NN NNS IN PRP$ NN NN NN . JJ NNS CC NNS MD VB IN DT NN . NNP POS MD VB DT JJS IN DT NNS VBN IN NNS CC PRP$ JJ NNS . PRP VBZ DT JJ NNS IN NNP POS CC IN DT JJ NN : IN DT JJ NN , PRP MD VB TO VB DT NNS IN NNS CC JJ NNS IN NN , NN , NNS , NN , NN CC NN IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NNS . VBG DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS MD VB PRP$ NNS JJ NN . NNP POS NN , IN NN , VBZ RB JJ . 
NNP NNP VBD IN IN PRP$ NN DT NN MD VB VBG NN TO VB NN NN IN IN DT JJ NN VBG IN PRP VBZ IN NN . DT NN NN NNS VBD IN PRP RB VBD JJ IN NN IN PRP MD VB NN NNS , WDT MD VB NN NNS CC NNS . NNP NN NNS , WDT VBP NN , MD VB NNS , CC DT JJ NN VBD IN NNS WP RB VBD NN NNS MD RB VB VBN IN JJ NNS IN PRP VBP NN . DT NN , VBN IN NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD IN IN DT JJ NN , NNS VBG NN RB VBD RBR NN NNS CC JJ NNS IN NN NN IN DT VBG DT NN . DT NN VBN IN JJ NNS , CC IN DT JJ NN DT NNS VBG NN VBD JJR IN DT VBG DT NN . CC DT NN VBD TO VB IN JJ , NNS WP VBD VBN NN NNS VBD VBN IN NN . 
NNS IN JJ NNS RB VBP IN NN , RB , VBG DT NNS TO VB IN DT IN DT NNS VBP JJ . CC WRB NNS VBP VBN PRP$ NN VBZ DT JJ NN , PRP MD VB TO NNS IN NN CC NN . CD VBP IN JJ DT RBR JJ NNS VBP PRP$ NNS , EX POS DT JJ , '' '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP JJ NN IN NNP NNP , WP VBZ PRP VBZ IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NN VBZ JJ . WP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNS WP MD RB VB DT NN . '' JJ NNS MD VB DT NN . IN NN NNS , NNS IN NNS WP VBD PRP VBD VBN VBN JJ NNS IN NNS . IN JJ NN NNS , IN IN NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN VBZ JJ '' MD VB DT NN TO VB NNS . VBN IN JJ JJ JJ NNS , DT NN POS NN VBZ RB TO VB DT NN . CC DT NN POS NN MD VB PRP$ NNS . 
DT NN VBN DT NN IN DT NN NNP CC NNP , WP VBZ VBG TO DT NNP IN NNP . '' VBD IN DT JJ JJ NN IN NNS VBD $ CD . IN JJS CD NN VBD DT NNS IN DT NN IN PRP VBD $ CD . JJ NNS VBD RB VB . NNP NNS VBP DT NN IN JJ NNS , JJ NNS VBP RB VBN JJ NNS , CC JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNPS VBP VBN TO VB NNS IN PRP$ RB JJR NN IN NN CC NN . ( JJ NNS , VBG NNP CC NNP , VBP VB NNS TO VB NNS . ) DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP VBZ NN IN $ CD CC JJR TO VB NN '' CC VBD VBG $ CD POS WP VBZ JJ . '' RB , NNS VBG NNS IN JJ NNS TO VB NN NNS IN NNS IN NNS , CC NN NNS VBP VBN RP , VBG TO JJ NNS IN JJ NNS CC NN NNS IN NNS . VBG TO DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP , CD NNS VBD VBN IN CD IN NN NNS : DT NN IN JJ NN NNS VBZ RB JJ JJR , RB , IN DT NN NN VBZ RB JJ . 
POS NNS IN NNP CC NN , WDT PRP VBP RB VBN TO VB VBN IN NN TO DT NNS IN NNS VBN IN NNP NNP CC JJ NNS , VBD TO VB NNS IN IN NNP MD VB VBN RB IN JJ NNS IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN WP VBD NN IN DT NN . CC NNS VBP JJ TO VB DT NN IN NN NN CC DT NN IN NN . '' NNP NNP VBD DT NNS IN DT NN IN NNS VBD RB JJ , IN PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN MD VB IN RB JJ IN CD JJ NNS DT NN . IN IN DT NNS , NNS MD RB VB TO VB DT PRP$ NNS VBD IN NNP NNP NN . NN IN JJ NN CC DT NN POS NN MD VB JJ , DT NN VBD . VBG IN DT NN IN DT NN , NNS MD VB VBN TO RB TO $ CD DT NN , NNS VBD . 
RB DT NN IN NN NNS VBD IN JJS NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN , NNP NN . NN , NN VBZ VBN TO VB DT JJ NN CC NN IN DT . CC JJ NN VBD RB JJ TO VBG DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , VBG IN , IN JJ NN NNS , RB , PRP VBZ NN , IN EX VBP VBN RB RB VBN RP NNS . '' 
DT JJ NN VBZ TO VB IN DT JJ JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN . IN PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB RB , JJ NNS VBP JJ NNS VBG MD VB IN DT NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ NNP . NNP NN VBZ JJ . JJ NN NNS IN JJ NNS MD VB JJ NNS , IN NN CC NN NNS , TO VB VBN IN NN RBR RB . CC , IN NN MD VB DT NN IN NN NNS , PRP VBZ RB VB DT JJ JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN DT NN . NNP NN CC NN NNS RB VBP TO VB . IN NNP , NNS CC JJ JJ NNS VBP RB VBN IN DT JJ NNS CC IN NNS CC JJ NNS . VBG DT NNS VBZ JJ . IN NN , NNS VBP RB VBN TO NN IN NNS , CC NNS VBP NNS IN NNS IN NN . VBG VBG TO VBG NNS WDT VBP NNS IN NNS , IN NNS TO VB JJ NNS , VBZ JJ . VBG IN NNS CC DT VBG IN NNS IN JJ NNS MD VB VBN . 
NNP NNP VBD IN NNP IN DT NNP NN IN CD TO VB DT NN NN NN . PRP VBD JJ RB IN PRP MD VB JJ . DT NN VBD JJ CC JJ CC DT NN RB VBD , NNP NNP VBD , IN PRP VBD IN IN PRP MD RB VB DT JJ NN . PRP$ NN , NNP NNP , DT NN NN , VBN . PRP VBD , NNP NNP VBD , PRP JJS JJ NNS WDT VBP RB VBN VBN IN NN NNS . '' CC NNP NNP , WP VBZ RB DT NN NN NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD VBN RB CC RB IN DT NN , DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP POS NNP NNP . PRP VBD VBN RB JJ IN DT JJ NN MD VB DT NN , '' PRP VBD . CC PRP$ NN VBD VBN RB VBG IN PRP VBD TO VB CD NNS DT NN CC $ CD NNS DT NN . CC PRP$ NN , VBG CD NNS DT NN , VBD RB JJ IN PRP VBD CD NNS DT NN TO VB PRP . 
DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS VBZ JJ : NN IN JJ NN , NN IN DT JJ NN , NN IN VBG NN NN . CC DT NN IN DT NN IN DT NN , NNS VBP , VBZ RB TO VB IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . JJ NNS NNS VBP DT JJ NN NN , DT NN WP VBZ RB JJ CC JJ . DT JJ NNP IN JJ NNP IN NNP NNP VBZ JJ JJ NNS IN NN NN IN DT NN IN CD . JJ NN IN JJR NNS VBZ RB RB JJ , CC NNS VBP JJ , VBD NNP NNP NNP . NNP , NN IN DT NNS POS NN . CC VBZ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ RB NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , '' VBP DT NN IN NN NN VBD . PRP VBZ JJR IN NN IN VBG IN DT NN VBZ JJ TO VB NN . '' DT JJS NN , PRP VBD , VBZ TO VB IN DT JJ NN TO DT JJ NN , WP MD RB VB DT NNS IN DT JJ NN . 
NN POS JJR IN RB DT NN IN DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN CC VBG NNS NN . RB , DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN NN IN JJ JJ NNS , JJ IN NNS CC JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . VBG PDT DT NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN VBZ IN DT NNS IN WP VBZ JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP$ NN POS NN NN VBZ IN CD NN . CC MD VB NN IN DT NN TO VB VBN , '' NNP NNP VBD , VBG IN VBG NN VBD IN NN NNS IN IN CD NN , CC VBP RB IN CD NN CC NN . DT IN DT NNS VBG IN DT NN VBD IN DT NN , NN CC NNS IN DT NNS , IN JJ NNS VBN IN RB VBN NNS , WDT VBD IN NNS CC JJ NN NNS . DT NNP NN VBZ TO VB PRP$ JJ NN NN IN DT NN IN DT NNP NNS , WP VBP VBN NNS IN NN VBG IN DT JJ NNS IN NN . IN PDT DT NNS VBP VBN VBN ( IN CD NNS IN NN ) , DT JJ NN MD VB JJ NNS , WDT DT NN MD VB CC VB . 
VBN JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS , NNP VBZ , WRB VBP PRP VB TO VB IN JJ NNS MD VB JJ NNS IN PRP RB VBD PRP$ NNS TO PRP . PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB RB IN NN CC NN , CC PRP$ NN IN PRP VBP VBN RB RB IN VBG JJ NNS POS JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN VBZ VBG . CC NNP VBZ RB RB IN VBG IN JJ NN IN PRP RB VBZ TO RB VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN : WP PRP VBP . IN DT NN , DT NN NN VBZ VBN IN DT NNP NNPS IN CD IN PDT DT JJ NNS : NN NN VBZ RB VBN RB JJ , JJ CC RB VBN . CC NNS WDT VBP NNS VBP VBP DT NN IN WDT NN VBZ JJ CC JJ , '' PRP VBZ . PRP VBZ IN DT NN IN JJ NNS CC NN IN NN NN IN NNPS VBP JJR NN NNS CC JJR NNS . 
DT JJ NNS VBP DT NN IN JJ NNS CC NNS IN WP PRP VBP VBG CC VB PRP DT NN TO VB , IN NN IN DT JJ NNS . DT JJ NNS WP VBP VBP PRP VBP DT NN IN DT NNS WP VBP RB . VB POS JJ JJ , CC PRP MD RB VB IN DT NN IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP . IN DT , DT NN IN VBG VBZ VBN TO RB DT IN PRP . '' JJ DT IN PRP VBP IN DT NN CC DT NN IN , CC NN VBZ TO VB IN RB , '' VBD NNP NNP , NNP POS JJ NN . CC VBD VBN RB . PRP VBD VBN RP RB . DT VBZ NN . '' 
RB , NNS VBP VBN TO VB IN PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN VBZ CC JJ NN VBP RB VBN . $ CD NNS CC JJ NN NN JJ JJ NNS IN DT NN IN NN CC NN IN DT NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP CC NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP . IN NN VBZ JJ NN , IN VBZ VBZ DT NN NN VBZ VBN , DT NN WDT VBZ NNS , WDT MD VB NN NNS TO VB . VBG RP DT JJ NN , RB , VBZ VBN VBG DT JJ NN IN NN NNS IN DT NN VBD JJ JJ NNS , CC VBN IN NNP POS . DT NNS VBP TO DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS WDT VBP IN DT NN POS NN CC VB IN NNS WDT RB VBP JJ NNS IN CC IN DT NN . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBZ DT NNS POS NNS '' WDT VBP JJ NNS , NNS , NN CC , RB , NN . 
IN NNP , DT NNP JJ NNS MD VB DT NN NN IN NNP NNS TO VB WRB TO VB , NNP NNP VBD . IN NNP CD , NNP VBD DT NN TO VB IN JJ NNS IN NNS IN NNS IN NNS IN JJ NN NN , CC WP VBP RB VBN DT NN NN , CC RB IN PRP VBP IN DT JJ NN TO VB DT NNS . DT NNS DT NN VBZ VBN , NNP NNP VBD , VBP : WP VBZ RB JJ IN CD TO CD NNS . NNP NN RB VBD IN , VBG PRP$ NN RB TO NN . VBZ PRP VB IN DT NN CC JJ NN VBD DT NN IN DT NN POS NN . VBZ PRP VB WDT NN IN NN DT NN VBZ . CC DT NN NNS VBP RB JJ IN VBG DT NN . CC JJ NN VBZ IN NNP . MD VB IN PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN , VBG TO DT NNPS IN NNP CC NNP NNPS . 
NN IN DT NN IN DT NN IN DT NNS VBZ IN VBG NN NNS VBP RB VBG DT NN IN JJ NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT JJ NN NN IN NNP CC NN : NNP POS NNP NNP . EX VBZ DT NN IN RB , '' PRP VBD , VBG IN NNP VBD RB RB VBN TO VB PRP . '' JJ , DT JJ , DT JJ NN MD RB VB DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP RB VBD VB DT NN IN DT JJ , JJ CC JJ NNS IN DT NN NN NN TO VB DT NN NN DT JJ JJ NN . CD IN DT VBZ VBG PRP NN WDT VBZ RB RB VBN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP VBD IN VBG DT NN POS NN , '' CC RB VB . '' '' POS NN '' VBZ NNS VB RBR JJ RB IN PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBZ DT NN . PRP VBZ RB PRP$ NN RB . '' DT NN IN NNP ( JJ NN ) VBZ DT NN IN JJ NN DT RB RB . IN DT NN , DT NN , NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT JJ NN , NNP , IN NNP NNP , NNP , VBD RB IN PRP$ NN . IN CD , PRP VBD PRP VBD DT NN IN JJ NN . CC WRB PRP VBD NNS IN NNS TO VB PRP VB PRP , PRP VBD , PRP VBD RB VBN DT NN . 
DT NNS VBP PRP TO DT NNS , WP , NNS VBP , VBP WP VBZ PRP VBP TO VB . NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN WP PRP VBP TO VB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP . NNP , DT NN NN IN NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , WP VBD DT NN NN IN DT NN WDT VBD TO VB JJ NNS . NNS VBP TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT NNS TO VB IN DT NNS CC NNS TO VB PRP VB DT NN . '' DT VBD RB VBG CD CC CD NNS RB . 
DT NNP NN NN PRP VBP VBN IN PRP VBD NNS CD NNS RB RB VBN IN PRP PRP$ JJ NN IN VBN IN PRP IN JJ JJ NNS . PRP VBZ IN CD NN TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN IN NN IN VBG RP TO VB NNS IN DT NN CC NN IN PRP$ NN IN CD . IN DT JJ CD TO CD NNS , PRP VBZ IN DT NN IN NNS RB RB , PRP MD RB VB TO DT CD IN PRP RB RB IN PRP VBZ PRP MD , CC PRP RB VBZ PRP MD VB NN . NNP IN DT , PRP VBD , PRP RB RBR VBZ VBG NN . CD NNS RB JJ NN VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN NN IN NN . NNP NN NNS , PRP VBD VBN , MD VB WP VBD VBN DT JJ , VBD NN NN VBD IN VBG NNS CC NNS IN JJ NN . NNS TO JJ NNS CC NNS , NN VBD VBN DT NN NN , CC DT NNS VBD NNS WP MD VB NNS POS JJ NN IN NN , CC IN NN VBD TO VB VBN IN DT JJ NN NNS : NNS , NN NNS , JJ NNS CC NNS . PRP MD DT VB PRP$ NNS , CC PRP MD VB PRP . 
RB , DT NNS VBD , DT NN IN VBG JJ NNS VBZ VBN IN CD TO CD NNS . IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , CD NNS RB IN DT NN DT JJ NN NN VBZ VBN IN PRP VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNPS . DT NNP NNP CC NNP IN NNP , DT NN NN IN NN NNS , VBD DT NN , VBG PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN FW NN VBZ RB JJ . '' NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN , VBD DT NN VBD DT NN IN NNS , IN NN NN , WDT VBP NN IN NN NN CC NN . DT NN NNS VBD DT NN IN VBN CC VBD PRP VBD DT NNS IN NN NN . CC VBZ RB DT RB JJ NN IN DT JJ NN TO VB JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN VBN IN NNP NNP . 
DT RB JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNS VBP RB CD IN DT JJ CC JJ NNS VBD DT NN IN DT NN IN CD JJ NNS VBG IN VBG NNP IN NNS , DT JJ NN IN RB MD VB NNP NNS RP , MD VB RB JJ IN VBG NN IN NNS IN JJ NN NN . MD VB VB VBG IN NNP RB IN PRP RB VBP IN NN . IN RB , RB WP . MD NNS IN JJ NNP NNS VBP PRP RP IN DT NNS JJ . MD VB VB PRP TO VB VB PRP VBZ . RB RB , DT VBP . IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD , '' MD RB VB DT RB IN NN NNS VBP PRP VBZ DT JJ NN . '' ( NNP NNP NNS IN CC NNS NNS IN DT NN NNS WDT VBP NNS . ) PRP VBZ VBN IN NNP PRP VBZ DT NN NN IN NN NN : DT JJR DT NNP NN , DT JJR DT NN IN NN NNS . DT NN VBZ JJ IN JJ NN NNS , IN NN CC NN NN . PRP RB MD RB VB NNP RB JJ , VBD NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC NNP POS NNP IN NNP , DT NN IN CD IN DT NNS , VBN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . NNP NNP VBD IN DT CD NN TO CD NN IN DT NN IN RB JJ NNP NNS , JJR IN CD , VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ RB JJ . '' RB IN PRP$ NN NNS VBP JJ , PRP VBD , PRP VBP RB TO VB NN NNS . ( NNP NNP VBZ DT NN IN DT NN IN NNP CC NNS IN PRP$ NN . ) 
NNP NN NN VBZ RB VBN NNP NNS TO VB IN DT NN IN NN . NNP NNS VBP JJ NN NN VBZ VBG VBN TO VB NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS IN NN NN NN . IN NN NNS VBP IN IN DT NN WDT VBZ VBN VBN DT JJ NN IN NN , DT NNP NN MD VB IN JJ NN TO VB IN DT NN NN VBZ JJ . NNP , IN DT JJ NN NN VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NNS IN CD NNS IN JJ NN NNS , DT NNP NN MD VB JJR NN TO DT NN . NNS WDT MD VB NNS VBP RB VBG DT NN . IN NN , NNP NNP POS NNP NNP NNP , CD IN DT NN POS JJS NN NNS , VBZ VBN VBG NN TO VB DT NN POS NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN . IN NN NNS VBP IN NN TO NN , VBG IN DT NN DT NN NN NNS IN DT NN , NNP VBD JJ TO VB JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN TO VB NNS TO NNS IN JJ NNS . 
DT NNP POS NNP NNP VBD RB DT JJ JJ NN TO VB JJ NNS IN NNS CC NN NN . DT NNP CC NNP NNP NNP CC NNP , VBD VBN IN IN NN NN NN MD VB DT JJ NN NN CC VBD IN DT NN RB VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN . NNP JJ NNS VBP IN NN TO VB DT NN IN NN '' NN , CC PRP VBP DT NN NN POS NN IN NNS , CC PRP MD VB NNS IN NN NN , RB NN NNS . IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB VBZ VB WRB EX VBZ JJ DT NN , CC NN , IN DT JJ NNS CC DT VBN JJ NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNS CC NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC NN IN DT NN IN NN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS CC NNPS . NNP , DT NN IN NN NN VBZ NN IN DT : JJS NNS VBP RB VB NN NN IN IN NN , IN NN NNS PRP$ NN NNS , VBG PRP FW CC JJ IN NN . CC IN NNS VBP IN NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN , PRP MD VB NN . IN DT NN , NN MD VB JJ , IN PRP VBZ DT NN TO NN , VBG DT NN IN DT NN NN . 
WRB NNP NNP NNP VBD TO VB IN NNS , PRP VBD IN JJS IN PRP$ NNS MD VB JJ . NN VBZ DT VBG NN IN DT NN . CC JJ NN VBZ DT JJS NN IN JJS JJ JJ NNS TO VB PRP$ NN IN NN . CC IN NNS IN VBG NN IN NN , JJ CC JJ TO VB NN , NNP NNP VBD TO DT NN . IN PRP RB VBZ NNS IN NNS , PRP RB RBR VBZ NN . PRP VBZ VBN DT NNS IN PRP$ NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , IN PRP VB DT JJ NN NN . CC PRP VBZ VBG NN WP VBZ IN DT NN IN JJ NN VBZ IN DT JJ CC JJ NNS IN NNS MD VB VBP RB JJ . NNS RB JJ NN , CC PRP RB RB VBP PRP RB . NN VBZ RB DT NN IN NN PRP MD VB RB JJ IN , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
RB , NN VBN IN VBG DT JJ JJ NNS VBD NNPS RB TO VB JJR NN NN , RB PRP VBP PRP , CC RB JJR DT NN PRP VBP IN NNP , NNP . CC PRP VBD RB VB RB . RB PRP VBP JJR NNS CC VBN NNS , IN NN IN NN , DT VBP DT JJS NNS IN DT NN NN TO VB , CC PRP MD VB VBN IN DT JJS NN . PRP VBZ RB WP PRP VBP TO VB . NNP VBZ DT NN IN DT NN IN CD WP VBZ RB VB DT NN CC RB VBN NN TO DT NN IN NN . JJ NNS MD VB RB TO VB JJ IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , '' VBZ NNP NNP , WP VBD NN NN IN NNP POS NNP NN . NNP VBD PRP PRP VBD DT VBG IN WRB DT NN NN MD VB TO DT JJ JJ NNS RB WRB DT NNS VBD JJ VBN . DT NN VBD PRP RB , PRP VBD , CC VBD PRP DT NN IN NN NNS TO JJ NN : NN VBD IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN IN DT JJ JJ NN , VB PRP DT JJ NN NN , VBD DT JJ NN NN IN PRP , PRP MD VB DT NN DT TO PRP CC VB PRP$ NNS TO VB RP . PRP MD RB VB DT IN NNS CC NNS . PRP VBZ JJR TO VB DT NN IN DT NN . '' 
WRB DT JJ NN VBZ DT JJ JJ NNS IN NNP NNP , PRP VBZ IN NNS IN NN NN MD VB JJ CC VBN . CC JJ NN NNS VBP PRP VBP IN NNPS POS NN NN MD VB RB IN DT JJ NN , VBG DT NN POS JJ NNS RB JJR . NNP NNP CC NNP VBP VBG IN DT NN IN DT NN IN NNP NNP , WP$ NN VBZ RB RB IN NNS VBG NN , NN CC NN NNS CC RB IN WRB JJ NNS MD VB VBG . JJ NN IN NN VBN IN CD NNS IN DT JJ NN , CC JJ JJ NNS , VBG DT NN IN JJ NN CC DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NNS , NN JJ NNS IN DT NN . DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ DT RB JJR NN . CC NN MD VB DT RB JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP , CC DT NN POS NNS IN NN VBP RB JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP , CD IN DT NN POS JJ NNS . 
IN DT NN VBZ VBN DT NN IN PRP$ NN NN , NNP NNP VBZ JJ IN DT NN TO NN NNS . IN CD , WRB PRP VBD JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNPS IN NNP , NNP , DT NN NN VBN NNP NNP NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN CC VBD VBG , VBG DT NN . DT NNP NNP NNS VBP RBR JJ , NN VBZ VBN DT JJ NN , VBG NNS JJ DT JJR CC RBR IN NN , CC IN NN CC NN . NNS MD VB NNS RB RB IN CD NNS IN NN , CC CD NN IN NNS VBG NNS VBP RB IN CD NNS , VBG TO CD NNS IN DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP . JJR IN CD NN VBP NNS IN CD NNS . DT JJ NN VBN JJ NN CC NN , RB VBN IN JJ NN , VBD IN JJR IN NNS IN CD NN IN DT NNS IN CD , VBG TO DT NNP NNP . JJR IN CD IN CD NNS VBD DT . 
NNP NNP VBZ VBN VBN IN NN IN DT JJ NN NNS WP VBP PRP$ NN VBG JJ IN DT CD : RB NNS CC NNS CC NN NNS : MD VB RB DT NNS VBG PRP$ JJ NNS . IN NN IN NNP NNPS , WDT VBZ NN NN , NNP NNP VBZ VBN IN NNS IN NNP NNP , VBG DT NN IN DT NN POS NN NNS VBP DT NN RB POS NN . RB WRB PRP VBD RP JJ NN IN DT NNP , NNP CC NNP NNP IN NNP TO VB RP DT JJ JJ VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , PRP VBD VBN CC VBG . VBG IN DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN VBD VBN DT CD NNS TO VB DT NN . RB PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN DT NN IN NN NN CC VBD , '' VBP PRP$ NNP . POS VBD RB VB DT . '' PRP VBD DT JJ NN . DT NN IN DT CD NNS VBD RB DT NN , CC DT NN TO NN NNS VBD RB . NN VBZ RB VB DT NN IN NNP . VBZ VBG TO VB PRP$ NNS : PRP VBZ VBN RB JJ IN $ CD CD IN NN IN NNP . 
IN DT NN IN DT NN NN VBZ NNS CC NN VBZ DT NN IN DT NN . CC VBZ DT CD NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC JJ NN CC NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP POS NNP CC DT NNP NNP IN NNP . EX VBP NNS IN DT IN DT JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN , IN DT JJ NN . '' IN NN , NNP NNP VBD , NNS WDT VBD NNS VBD IN RB IN PRP$ CD POS , JJ NNS VBD RB RBR JJ IN NN TO NN IN JJ NNS . NN VBZ RB VB IN PRP MD VB CD JJ NN WDT VBZ NN IN NN , CC PRP RB VBZ TO VB VBG DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN VBG DT NN MD VB DT NN IN NN NN , JJ NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , VBG NN , NN NNS CC NN NN TO DT NN . 
NNS CC NNS VBP RB DT JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN IN NN NNS . NNS VBP DT NNS WDT VBP DT NN IN VBG JJR JJ NNS IN NN IN PRP VBP RB RBR JJ . DT NN IN NN VBZ VBN IN RB CD NN IN JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD , VBN IN JJR IN NN IN CD . NNP NNP CC JJ NNS , DT JJ NN IN DT NN RB VBZ VBN TO $ CD CD DT NN , PRP VBD . MD NN IN JJ NN VBZ NNS RBR IN NNS , '' PRP VBD . DT NN NNS VBP VBG NNS NNS IN NNS IN VBG NNS , NN NNS CC NN NNS , CC VBP DT NN VBZ JJ CC JJ NNS WDT VBP RB NN . PRP MD RB VB TO VB NNS IN DT JJ NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP , DT NNP NN WDT VBZ DT JJS NN IN JJ NN . CC NNS VBP RB VB TO VB RP PRP$ NN . '' 
NNP NNP NNP VBZ VBG DT NN IN NNS , NN NNS VBD NN , VBG TO JJ NNS VBG IN RB CD NN IN NNS IN DT NN VBP DT NN , VB DT NN IN CD NNS RB . DT NN , WDT VBZ JJ NNS , VBZ RB JJ IN DT NN POS JJS NNS , WRB NN NNS VBP RB RB JJ , VBG TO NNS VBN IN DT NN POS NNP IN NNP IN DT NN JJ NN IN CD NNP NNPS IN DT NN VBZ VBZ DT JJS NN NN RB VBN IN DT NN . IN NN , DT NN VBD IN IN NNP NNP NNP , NNP , JJR IN CD NN IN DT NNS VBP JJ , CC CD NN VBP NNS . IN DT NNP NNP , CD NN VBP JJ CC CD NN VBP NNS . DT NN VBD JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , WRB JJR IN CD NN IN NNS VBP JJ , CC RB CD NN VBP VBN JJ . 
DT JJ NN IN DT NNS VBZ VBN CD JJ NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN . IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD IN NN POS NNP , DT NN NN NNP VBD DT JJ CD NN , '' NNP , '' IN VBD RP DT NN NN IN NN IN DT NN WDT MD VB NNS JJ , JJ CC JJ , VBG TO DT NN POS NN . RBR RB , NNP NNP , DT NN VBN IN NNP NNS , VBD NNP NN IN NN VBZ VBN IN PRP$ NNS , PRP VBZ JJ IN PRP$ NN , '' VBG PRP JJ IN DT NN NN CC JJ NN . CD JJ NN IN DT NN WRB JJ NN NNS VBP VBG PRP$ NNS IN NN : CC WRB DT JJ CC JJ NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS : VBD DT JJ NN IN DT JJ JJ NN . DT NNS MD RB VB VBN VBG TO NNP , DT NN IN DT NN NN VBG VBN , WP$ NNS VBD RB IN DT NN . CC DT NNP NNPS IN NNP CC DT NNS PRP VBD DT NNS IN VBG DT NN CC VBG DT NNS IN DT NN IN NNS CC PRP$ NNS . IN RB DT NN NN MD VB RB JJ . 
IN DT NN IN DT NN , DT JJ NN VBD DT NN WDT NN CC NN NNS MD RB VB VBN IN JJR IN DT JJ NNS . DT JJ NNS NN TO VB RP DT NNS IN VBG TO VB NN NN RB IN DT JJ NN . PRP VBP RB JJ IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN , VBN IN CD , WDT VBD DT VBN NN IN NN NN RB IN DT NN IN NN NN . CD JJ NN VBZ IN NN NN VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN IN NN NN , NNP NNP VBD . VB DT NN VBZ DT VBN NN NN , DT JJ NN IN VBG MD VB TO DT NN NN RB RB , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP VBD IN NNS WP VBP NNS TO VB DT JJ NNS CC NN NNS WDT RB VBP RB VBP TO VB IN PRP$ JJ CD POS , IN DT PRP$ NN IN NN NN VBZ , IN NN , JJR IN CD NN IN CD NN . RB IN VBN , IN NN VBZ JJR IN CD NN . 
NNP NNP TO VB DT JJ NN VBZ IN NN RB JJ IN NN . CC WP MD DT RBR JJ CC JJ NN TO DT NN NN . WRB MD PRP VB PRP$ NN IN NN CC , IN NN , IN DT JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN . IN NN NN MD VB VBN : VB NN CC VBG DT NN : CC DT VBZ RB JJR TO VB IN NN , VBN DT NN NN PRP RB VBP CC DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS TO VB PRP IN PRP . RB , PRP VBP VB NN VBZ JJ , TO WDT VB PRP MD RB VB : CC VB IN , CC RB DT JJ : DT JJ NNS IN JJ VBG PRP VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN , JJ CD NNS RB . RB IN DT JJ ( RB RB ) NNS IN NN , VBN IN DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN , CC VBP IN PRP VBP RB IN JJS NN PRP IN DT JJ NN . 
DT NN IN DT NN VBZ CD PRP IN NNS VBP RB DT NN : DT NN NN NN VBN IN NN TO DT NN WDT VBZ RB VBN TO VB NN . IN DT NN VBD VBN VBN TO CD IN DT CD NNP NNS WDT VBP VBN NN , WRB NN VBZ VBN , JJ CD NNS DT NN , DT NN TO PRP$ NN MD VB VBN VBN , VBG NNS TO PRP$ NN . CC PRP MD VB VBN DT NN IN NN CC VBD IN JJ NN NNS IN NNP NNP CC IN DT NN NN . JJ RB VBN NNS VBP VBN DT JJ NN IN WRB JJ NN NNS , DT JJ JJ NN , MD VB VBN . IN DT CD NNS IN DT NNP NNPS DT NN , JJ NN NNS VBP DT JJ JJ NN NN , CC WRB DT NN VBZ VBN VBZ VBN TO VB JJ JJ NN NNS . WRB NN NN VBZ VBN IN NN , PRP VBZ IN WP VBZ VBN VBN DT JJ NN . '' RB DT NN VBZ IN DT NN IN VBG NN , VBN IN DT NN IN NN . NNP NN IN NN CC NN NN IN IN RB JJ NNS , VBG NN IN DT JJ NN . 
NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP NN , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , NNP . PRP VBP RB VB VBG IN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN PRP VBP IN PRP$ NNS . PRP VBZ CD IN DT DT NNS WRB PRP VBZ IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBZ JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ RB VB . PRP VBP VB TO VB NN , VBG IN NN CD . CC IN PRP VBP DT NN WP VBZ IN RB JJ NN IN NN NN , VBN IN PRP$ NN NN CC NN NN , RB PRP VBP PRP VBZ JJ TO VB IN NN CD . DT JJS NN VBZ VBG NNS IN PRP$ CD POS CC JJ CD POS TO VB VBN , IN DT VBZ WRB EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN , CC PRP VBP TO VB JJR NNS IN NN . NNP NN VBZ JJ . PRP VBZ RB DT NN , JJ NN , CC JJS NNS WP VBP PRP VBZ IN PRP CC RB IN PRP . 
DT NN VBD DT NN , '' NNP . NNP VBD . NNS VBD VBG IN NN VBZ DT JJ NN . PRP VBZ IN PDT DT JJ NNS . IN PRP VBP CD NN , DT NN RBR PRP MD VB DT NN IN NNS CC VBZ PRP DT NN NN , RB JJ NN , IN NNS CC NN NNS , VBZ DT NN TO VB DT NN RBR . '' CC , PRP VBD , EX VBZ DT NN IN NN WDT VBZ RB VB TO VB DT . '' RB RBR JJ , NNP NNP VBD , VBZ IN VBG MD RB VB JJ NN NNS IN RB CD NN IN NNS . WDT MD VB RP TO DT NN IN NNS VBG NN NN IN DT NN NN TO VB PRP . PRP VBZ RB VBN DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN NNS VBP PRP VBP RB VB NNS CC NNS . PRP$ JJ NNS , VBN IN NNS TO VB NN NN IN VBG RB IN DT JJ NN , VBP RB JJ IN NNS , CC NNS VBP VBG . CC EX VBZ RB RB DT NN IN PRP VBP DT NN IN NN NN . 
DT NN VBG NN VBD IN JJ , WRB DT NNS VBD NNS IN DT JJ NN , CC VBD IN DT JJ NN IN NNP POS NNS . DT NNS VBD CD JJ NNS TO VB NNS CC VBD CD JJ NN , NN . PRP VBD VBN IN NNP CD CC VBZ JJ CC JJ , DT NNS NN . DT NN NN VBD JJ TO VBG NN NNS IN JJ NNS . CC DT NN POS NN NN NN , WDT VBD JJ NNS RB CC VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NNS , RB VBZ RB VBN , NNP NNP VBD . CD NN VBZ IN NNS VBP RB JJR NN VBG IN NN NNS CC NN , NNP NNP VBD . NNS , PRP VBD , VBP RB RBR JJ TO VB . IN NNS , WDT VBP WRB PRP VBP VBN , VBG PRP JJ TO NN DT NN IN NNS , NNS VBP JJ . PRP VBP WRB PRP VBP IN TO PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN JJ NNS WDT VBP NN NNS , NNS VBP NN NNS IN PRP$ NNS , VBG PRP JJ TO VB DT NN VBZ VBN TO VB DT NN NN . 
DT JJ NN NNPS VBP JJ CC JJR , NNP NNP VBZ , MD VB DT JJ NN IN NN NN . IN PRP VBZ JJ , DT NN IN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS : CD IN DT JJ NN IN JJ CC JJ NN NNS WP$ JJ NNS MD RB VB JJ . IN NN , NNPS RB VBN IN JJ NNS IN NN , CC NN , CC NNS VBD IN NN IN JJ NNS . RB PRP VBP RB : DT NN IN JJ NN . CC IN DT NN , DT NN VBZ VBG RB JJR , WDT VBZ IN NN VBG DT NN IN JJ JJ JJ NN NNS . '' VBP RB RB VBG TO VB IN DT JJ NNS '' IN DT VBG NN , NNP NNP VBD . DT NN IN NN CC NN VBZ RB RB VBN , CC DT JJ NNS VBP RB . IN CD TO CD : IN NN NN VBD VBG : VBG NNS VBD IN CD NN IN DT NN IN DT NN CC IN CD NN IN JJ NNPS . ( NNP , VBG NNS VBP VBN RP , NNP NNP NNS , CC EX VBP NNS IN DT NN NNS VBP VBG RP , RB . ) 
NNP NNP 
NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN CD , VBZ IN JJ NNS VBP RB WRB EX VBZ DT JJ NN : VB PRP RBR NN IN DT NNS , RBR JJ NN CC JJR NNS IN NN . CC PRP VBP JJ IN DT DT CD NNS , PRP MD VB TO VB IN NN , IN IN NNS , IN PRP$ NN CC IN NNS , '' PRP VBD . DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ PRP$ NN TO DT NN IN VBG NN NN . NN VBD VBG TO VB , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP . CC VBN TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ JJ . NN IN DT JJ JJ NNS VBD NNP , NNP , NNP . '' RB NN VBZ NNP , NNP , NNP . NNP NNP POS NNS VBD NNP NNP JJ NNS . IN PRP$ JJ NNP FW NNP NN IN CD , PRP VBD NNP NNP IN CD NNS IN NNP NNP . PRP RB VBZ DT NN IN JJR IN CD IN NN , JJ NNS CC CD NNS . 
PRP VBD CD NNS CC NNS VBP DT NNP NN , VBG JJ WP VBP IN IN NN . DT NNP NNP , NNP POS NNP NNP NN , VBZ VBN NNS IN DT NNP CC NNP POS NN , VBG NN IN DT NN MD VB CC VB , NNP NNP VBD . JJS NNS CC NNS RB JJ NNS IN NNS IN NNS IN DT NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP . DT NNP . NN NNS DT VBN NN IN NN NNS RB , VBG NNS IN NNS CC NN NNS . DT NN IN JJ NNS : VBG NNP NNPS , NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP : NNS TO VB NNS CC NN NNS TO VB JJ NNS . DT NN NNS VBP TO VB JJ NN IN CD JJ NN NN NNS TO VB NNS TO VB NNS IN VBG JJ NNS CC JJ NNS . JJ NN VBZ RB VBN IN IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP VBD . 
IN NNS VBN IN CD TO CD , IN NN VBD IN DT JJ NN . CC IN DT VBN IN CD CC CD , RB CD NN IN CD VBD IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD . IN NN NNS VBD , PRP VBD , JJ NN VBD . WP VBD DT NN PDT DT RBR JJ , PRP VBD , VBZ IN IN NN TO DT NNS VBD RB IN CD , CD CC CD , PRP VBD RB RB VB TO CD . DT NNP . VBD VBG RP NNS IN JJ NN IN CD IN NN CC CD IN NN , CC JJ NNS RB VBD DT NNS RP PRP$ NNS IN PRP VBD VBN TO VB RB . CC DT JJ NNS IN NN NN VBD RB VB NN IN DT NN IN CD IN NN CC DT NN IN CD IN NN . NNS IN NNP VBD IN JJ NNS IN NN NNS VBD RB VBG NNS IN DT NNS RB RB IN NN . 
DT NN VBZ IN DT NN WRB DT NNS VBP VBN VBG DT NN IN VBG NNS IN JJ NNS , VBG NN CC JJ NNS IN NNS , NN NN IN NNS , CC NN NN IN DT NNS . DT JJ NN VBZ IN DT NNS VBP VBG DT NN IN NNS WDT MD RB VB JJ CC MD RB VB VBN IN NNS WDT MD VB RB , RB VBG JJ NNS TO VB DT NN IN NN , NN CC NN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN VBZ NNS WP VBP IN JJ NN VBZ RB RBR JJ IN NN , CC NNS WP VBP RB RB JJ . DT NN VBZ DT NN IN VBG VBG NNS TO JJ NNS TO VB IN PRP VBP VB NN NN . JJ NNS VBP VBN VBN RB IN NN . CC RB JJ NNS MD RB VB DT NNS . NNP VBZ VBN VBN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN CD JJ JJ NNS , CC NNS VBP IN IN NNS IN DT NNS VBP DT NNS CC RB JJ PRP . 
RB IN VB WRB JJ NNS VBP VBN RB , NNP NNS IN DT JJ NN IN NN VBZ VBN : CC IN DT NN IN NN VBZ RB PRP JJ . DT JJ NNS VBP RBR DT JJ JJ NN NN IN DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBZ . IN NN , PRP VBZ , DT JJ JJ NNS VBP JJR NN NNS IN RB JJ NNS IN IN JJ JJ NNS '' CC RB JJ NNS . DT NNS VBP RB VBG . CC VBG JJR VBZ RB VB IN JJ NNS VBP IN JJ NN IN DT NN . IN NN , PRP VBP IN JJR NNS IN NNS , NN , JJ NNS CC NN NN . NNP VBZ DT , IN PRP$ NN VBZ IN NN IN CC IN PRP VBZ RB DT NN JJ NNS MD VB : CC RB DT JJ NN . PRP RB VBZ CD NN WP VBZ IN JJ NNS '' VBP RB VB IN NNPS VBP IN NN RBR JJ IN IN DT NN . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN WDT VBZ IN NN . 
NNS VBP RB VBG TO VB VBG IN DT NN IN DT NNP . POS IN NNS CC NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP . POS NN IN NN NN . NNP NNP VBD DT NN VBD VBN IN JJ NNS VBP JJ CC JJ IN NNS CD CC JJR WP VBP DT JJ JJ NN . PRP VBD IN PRP VBD RB JJ WRB VBG DT NNS IN VBG DT NNS MD VB NN CC NN . DT CD JJS NN NN NNS VBD PRP RB VBP NNS TO VB TO DT NNS . NNP NNP , WDT VBZ NN NNS , VBD PRP VBZ DT NN NN . DT JJ JJ NN , NNP NNP , VBD IN PRP VBZ NNS CC NNS TO VB DT NNS CC IN PRP VBZ VBG IN NNS TO VB PRP . IN CD JJ NN NNS VBD VBN IN DT NNP NNPS IN CD , RB IN IN CD IN CD , VBG TO NNS IN DT NN IN NNS VBN IN DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP . DT NNS VBP RB VB NNS WP VBD NNS IN NN IN NN NN . 
RB VBG JJ DT NN , NNP NNP VBD VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN NNS VBD VBN IN PRP$ NN CC VBD VBN IN NNP NNS . NNP NNS VBD NNP NNP IN DT NN . DT NN VBZ RB VBG PRP$ CD NN , CC DT NN IN DT NNP NN NNP , WDT VBD VBN IN NNP NNP IN NNP IN DT NN POS JJ VBN NN . VBG DT CD NN VBZ DT NN TO DT NN IN IN DT VBN NNP JJ NN VBD RB VBN DT JJ NN . NNP NNP VBD DT NN MD VB PRP$ JJ NNS IN JJ . 
IN CD , NNP VBZ TO VB DT NN POS RBS JJ NN IN DT NNS IN NN . VBG RB TO DT NN WRB NNS MD VB PRP$ JJ NNS CC VB DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS IN VBG JJ NNS , DT NN NNS VBP TO VB DT NN IN JJ NN IN CD NNS , VBG PRP$ NN . DT NN , IN DT JJ CD TO CD NNS , VBZ TO VB RP DT NN IN NNS CC DT NN NN TO VB JJ NNS . IN JJS CD NNS VBP VBG JJ NNS , IN NN JJ NNS , CC VBP RB VBN PRP . NNP , DT NN , VBZ VBN JJ NNS CC NNP NNS IN CD JJ NNS TO VB NNS WDT VBP IN NN . PRP MD RB VB DT JJ NN IN NN NNS IN PRP$ NN NN NN . JJ NNS CC NNS MD VB IN DT NN . NNP POS MD VB DT JJS IN DT NNS VBN IN NNS CC PRP$ JJ NNS . PRP VBZ DT JJ NNS IN NNP POS CC IN DT JJ NN : IN DT JJ NN , PRP MD VB TO VB DT NNS IN NNS CC JJ NNS IN NN , NN , NNS , NN , NN CC NN IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NNS . VBG DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS MD VB PRP$ NNS JJ NN . NNP POS NN , IN NN , VBZ RB JJ . 
WRB DT JJ NN IN NN NN NN VBD RB VBN JJ NN IN IN NNS IN DT NNS , NNS RB VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NNS WDT VBD DT NNS . RB , CD JJ NN VBZ VBN VBN , CC NNS IN NNS WDT VBP VBG VB VBN TO VB PRP$ NN RB . NNS VBP DT NNS IN DT NN NN NN MD VB IN NNS , VBG PRP VB RB IN WRB , IN RB , TO VB JJ NNS TO VB NN IN JJ NNS . '' NNP POS NNP NNP VBZ VBN PRP DT NN IN DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , VBG TO DT JJ NN WDT VBD VBN . NNS VBP TO VB IN IN DT NN , EX VBZ NN TO VB DT NN . '' NNP , NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP CC NNP CC NNP NNP , VBD , PRP VBZ DT RB JJ NN . '' 
MD VB PRP VBZ JJ TO VB WP PRP VBP VBG IN , IN PRP VBP VBG CC IN PRP VBP VBG NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBP IN RB VBZ CD POS NNS . '' NNP , NNP IN NNP NN , '' VBZ CD IN DT RBS JJ NNS IN VBG JJ NNS , CC IN RB RB JJ NN NNS VBD PRP JJ NN : PRP VBD RBR DT NN IN JJ NNS , NN IN DT NNP NNP CD IN IN NN CD IN IN NN '' NN IN VBG NN . DT JJ NNP VBD PRP , VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NN CC VBG DT NN IN NN . NNS MD VB DT NNS VBD JJ , CC WRB PRP VBD VBN , PRP$ NNS MD RB VB RP DT NN CC VB DT NN . IN NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP VBD , DT NNS VBD RB JJ IN JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNPS NNP IN NNP POS JJ NNS , JJ IN VBG NN NNS WDT VBD NN NNS , NN NNS CC RB VB NNS . '' 
CD NN RB , IN PRP VBD NNS WP PRP VBP , CD NN MD VB VBD NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , JJ VBG NN IN NNP NNP , WDT RB VBD CD JJ NNS IN NNS IN NNP NN NN CC NNP NN NN . CC IN PRP VBP , CD NN IN NNS VBP PRP VBP VBG NNS . IN PRP$ NN , DT VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN NN . '' DT NN VBZ RB VBN DT NN POS NN TO VB DT NNS CC PRP$ NN . IN CD , CD NNS WDT VBP TO VB JJ IN NNS VBP VBN VBN , VBG TO DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN . JJ NN , NNS IN CD NNS , VBG NNP , NNP CC NNP , VBD IN DT CD NN NNP NNP IN NNP TO VB WRB TO VB NN IN WP DT NNS VBP MD VB DT $ CD CD NN IN JJ NNS CC NNS DT NN : NN IN JJ NN TO JJ JJ NN NNS CC NN CD JJ . '' 
POS NN DT IN DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP . IN CD , DT NNP . JJ NN VBD CD TO CD TO VB DT NN POS JJ NN IN NN NNS . CC DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBD IN NN CC NN NN NNS , VBG NNS IN JJ NNS MD VB IN JJR NN IN DT NN NN VBD RB JJ . DT NN VBD PRP$ NN , VBG IN JJ NN VB VBN IN NNS JJR IN CD . IN DT NN VBD NN , NNP . NNP NNP VBD DT NN MD RB VB IN NN CC IN , IN DT NN VBD JJ NNS , PRP MD VB JJ NNS TO NNS CD CC JJR . PRP VBZ IN TO NNP TO VB DT NN IN DT NN MD RB VB VBN TO DT IN CD . DT NN VBZ VBD IN PRP VBZ RB VBN DT NN TO VB NNS . IN DT NN , NNP NNP MD RB VB JJ IN NN NNS CC IN NN NNS , CC RB IN NNS WRB EX VBZ DT NN . JJR IN VBG VBN IN NN NNS , DT NN MD VB IN DT NN NN . TO VB PRP , NNS MD VB TO VB JJ NN TO VB PRP$ NN . 
CC JJS VBP RB VBN DT NN . RB , NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP CC IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , VBD PRP VBD RB VB TO VB IN DT NN POS NN NN . IN PRP VBP VBN IN DT JJ NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , WP VBZ PRP DT NN VBZ RB RB VBN IN TO VB NNS CC VBZ RB VBG IN JJ NNS . '' NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP IN IN VBG NNS , DT NN JJ NNP IN DT NN VBG JJ NNS IN DT NNS IN NNS VBN IN JJ NNS VBD RB TO DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBD IN DT NNS . PRP VBZ IN DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , RB CD NNP . '' DT NN RB VBD DT NN IN DT NNP . NNP NNP WRB NNP NNP VBZ RB IN NN . PRP VBZ IN NNP NNP NNP , NNP , RB NNP NNP . 
WRB NNP NNP NN IN DT NN JJ NN WDT JJ NNS IN DT NN VBN NNP VBD RB JJ IN JJ NN IN VBG NN NN NN , PRP VBD TO PRP$ NN TO VB VBN . NNP NNP , DT JJ JJ NN IN NNP , NNP , VBD IN PRP$ NN IN NNP ( DT NNS VBP IN NNP NN ) MD VB JJ , RB IN PRP$ NN NN . PRP$ JJ NN VBD JJ . PRP VBD RB VB DT NN NNS CC VBD JJ NN NN . CC IN PRP VBD , PRP VBD RB JJ CC PRP VBD DT NN , VBG NN CC VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NN . CC TO NNP NNP POS NN , DT JJ NN NN VBN IN PRP$ NN VBD IN PRP$ NNP NN VBD CD , JJR IN JJ , NN IN PRP VBD RB RB JJ NN IN VBG DT NN NN CC VBG IN NN NN IN NNS WP$ NNS VBD JJR IN CD JJ IN NN IN NN . 
CC NNP CC PRP$ NNS IN JJ NN NNS VBP VBG RBR . NN VBP NNS , CC RB CD VBP VBN IN NN . PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB IN PRP MD VB PRP$ NN NNS , CC DT NNS RB CC IN DT JJ NN RB VBP JJR NN NN CC JJR NN NNS IN JJ JJ NNS , NN CC NN . CC JJ NNS VBP IN PRP VBP VBG IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN JJ JJ NN , DT NN IN JJ NN NNS IN NNS VBZ JJ IN JJS . DT NN VBD VBN IN JJ NNS IN NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP , WP VBD RB IN DT JJ CD NNS IN PRP$ NN VBG DT JJ NN . PRP VBD IN NNP NNP POS NN IN CD IN CD . RB IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN , JJ CD NNS VBP RB IN JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNPS , VBZ NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP . 
NNP VBD NN IN JJ NNS IN NN : DT NN NN WDT VBZ DT RBS JJ NN IN DT NN POS NN : VBD IN PRP VBZ NN NN , DT RB JJ NN NN . CC NNS IN NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN NNP , DT NN POS JJS NN NN . NNP VBZ VBN VBG IN DT JJ NN TO RB VB DT $ CD CD IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN NNP , WDT VBZ NN NN IN CD . NNS CC NNP NNP NNS RB VBP VBN RB VBG DT JJ NNS IN NN , DT NN VBN TO VB JJ JJ NN . NNP POS NN VBD CD NN IN DT NN IN DT NN , WDT VBZ VBN VBG NN IN DT NN CC VBZ VBG $ CD CD TO VB PRP . NNP VBD PRP RB VBD TO VB DT NN IN JJ NN RB IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN , IN DT NN JJ IN CD . NNP VBZ TO VB NN IN VBG IN DT NN IN NN CC NNP MD VB DT NN IN NN IN DT NNS . 
DT NN VBD VBN RP PDT DT JJ NN IN DT RB VBN JJ NN . RB , IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN , DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBD CC VBD DT NN POS NN NN IN NNP NN , VBG TO VB DT NN NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN . RB , IN DT JJ NN , DT NN NN VBD NN . VBD CD NNS IN DT JJ NN , DT NN MD VB VBN VBG NN IN DT JJ NN NN , IN PRP$ JJ JJ NN . CC RB VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN , '' VBD NNP . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN , PRP$ NNS VBG IN PRP$ JJ NN IN PRP VBD DT NN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NN NN VBD IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP . CD IN NNP NNP NNP . TO PRP$ NNS , NNP NNP POS NN IN NNP CD IN PRP VBD VBN JJ NNS IN NN NNS WDT VBD DT NN IN PRP$ NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN VBG NN NNS IN NNS IN JJ NN NNS , NN NNS CC JJ NN NNS . 
DT NNP NNP CC DT NN , NNP NNP NNP , VBD TO VB VBN IN DT NN , IN VBD NNP NNP , DT NNP NN . DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ VBN IN NN NNS VBN IN JJ NN '' MD RB VB VBN RB '' IN DT NN IN IN DT NN IN NNS IN NN . IN DT VBN NN , NNP NNP IN NNP VBD IN PRP VBD PRP RB '' VBN IN JJ NNS IN PRP VBD RB VB DT NN NN POS NNS . NNP NNP , WP VBD DT NNS , VBD PRP RB VBD JJ NNS . PRP VBD IN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN NNS VBN IN NNP NNP VBD NNS , '' CC NNS IN WDT CD NNS VBD IN CD NN . JJ NNS IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN , IN NNS VBD VBN TO VB IN PRP MD VB DT JJ NN RB . NNS VBP RB VB DT NN POS NN IN CD NN VBZ DT NNS CC DT JJ CD NN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
DT IN NNP POS NNS , DT JJ NN CC JJ NN WP VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ , VBZ IN DT JJ JJ NN . PRP VBZ RB CC IN IN PRP$ NN , CC EX VBP JJ NNS IN NN IN PRP$ NNS . WRB NNP VBZ PRP$ IN PRP VBZ NN , PRP VBZ , VBZ IN DT NN IN NNP . '' PRP VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN NN , DT NN IN JJ NN IN WDT NNS VBP DT JJ NN RB IN DT JJ NN TO VB DT NNS IN DT NN . PRP VBZ RBR IN JJ NN : WDT NNS TO DT NN IN , PRP VBZ , '' RB VBP TO VB PRP RP IN . PRP VBP RB VB IN DT . PRP VBP RB VB WRB PRP VBP VBG TO VB IN PRP . CC PRP VBP TO VB IN PRP$ NN . '' PRP MD RB VB VBN JJ , IN , CC IN PRP VBZ RB VB JJ JJ NN , PRP MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN NNS POS NNS . IN DT NN , DT NN , RB , VBD VBN TO VB DT NN , VBG IN DT NN IN NNS , DT JJ JJ NN . 
IN DT JJ JJ NNS , PRP VBP VBN VBN TO DT JJ NN : NNS VBG TO VB CD DT IN IN DT NN IN PRP NN IN NN DT NN IN NN NNS IN DT NN . IN DT NN , PRP VBP VBG TO VB DT NN POS JJ JJ NN . DT JJ NNS RB , PDT DT NN MD VB VBN JJ . CC RB , CD JJ NNS VBP PRP VBP NNS IN DT NN . NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN , VBZ PRP$ NN MD VB VBN RB . NNP NNP , WP VBD JJ IN CD IN VBG DT JJ NN VBN JJ IN VBG DT NN POS JJ NN IN PRP$ NN , VBZ PRP VBZ DT NN NN IN NN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN , PRP VBZ , VBZ DT NN , JJ IN JJ NNP . NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP POS JJ NN CC RB PRP$ NN NN , VBZ PRP VBZ RB VB NNP NNP , CC RB PRP VBZ VBG IN NN RB RBR . NNP NNP , DT NN , VBZ PRP VBZ VBN NNS IN CD NNS WP VBP TO VB VBN , CC IN DT JJ CD NNS IN NNP PRP MD VB DT NNS POS NN IN VBN JJ NNS IN WDT NN VBP VBN VBN . PRP VBZ IN , IN PRP$ NN , PRP MD VB NNP NN IN DT IN DT NNS VBN IN DT NN VBZ DT JJ JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . 
IN DT JJ NN WP$ NN RB VBZ IN DT NN NN IN PRP$ JJ JJ NN NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP VBD RB WP NN TO VB WRB NNP . NNP NNP NNP VBD NNS TO VB NNS IN NNS VBG DT JJ NN IN '' NN , RB IN PRP VBD VBG RP PRP$ NNS POS JJ NNS . CD NN VBZ VBG TO VB DT NN WDT MD VB VBN TO DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP$ NN NN , NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBZ RB NN DT NN . PRP VBZ DT NN IN DT NN NN CC RB IN DT NN POS NN IN NN . '' NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP , CC NNP NNP , DT NNP , VBP DT JJS NNS IN DT VBG NN IN NN NN . IN IN JJS CD NNS , NNS CC JJ VBN NNS VBP VBN NNS CC VBP VBG NNS IN DT NN WDT VBZ VBN JJ IN DT JJ NNS CC VBD RB IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN . 
NNP VBZ DT . PRP VBZ IN NNS IN JJ NNS VBP RBR JJ IN JJ NNS TO VB VBN , DT IN PRP JJ . CC PRP VBZ JJ NN IN RB JJ . IN NN TO DT NN CC NN NNS , PRP VBZ NN VBG IN VBG NNS TO VB JJ IN NN , CC VBG PRP JJR NNS , VBZ DT NN IN PRP$ NNS . DT NNS VBD IN DT NN VBD RB JJ : DT NNS POS NNS VBD TO VB IN NN RB RB IN IN NN . CC NNP NNS IN DT JJ NN , '' WDT VBZ CD TO VB DT NN CC RB TO VB DT NN IN DT NN . '' VBZ DT NN IN NN , RB , VBZ PRP RB JJ TO VB PDT DT NN IN PRP$ NNS : CC VB DT JJ NN NN . CC IN PRP VBZ JJ TO VB RP IN JJ NNS VBP RB VB JJR NNS IN NN , NN CC NN NNS , WDT VBZ RB VB DT NNS VBP RB DT NN IN VBG NN IN DT WP VBP RB JJ TO PRP . IN DT IN DT NN IN NNP POS JJ NNS NNS , PRP VBP RB RB IN PRP$ NNS VBP PRP TO CC IN PRP$ NNS VBP , IN NN IN DT NN CC NN IN NN CC NN . 
IN DT JJ NN , DT JJS NN IN VBG DT NNS VBZ IN VBG PRP$ NN IN NN . NNS IN JJ NN MD RB VB NNS TO VB IN NNS WDT VBP RB RB CC DT WDT MD VB JJ . JJ NNS MD VB VB WP NNS MD VB WRB PRP VBP JJ NNS IN VBG NNS . RB , JJ NNS MD VB RB JJ IN PRP MD RB VB WRB DT NN VBZ VBN : PRP MD DT VB JJ . CC IN DT NN , NNS CC PRP$ NNS MD VB TO VB DT NN WDT VBZ JJ TO PRP . DT MD VB NN CC JJ IN DT NN IN IN DT NN VBD RB JJ NN . NNS MD VB DT NN CC NN VBG IN DT JJ NN RB , WRB PRP$ NN VBZ JJ . DT NN VBZ DT NN TO WP VBZ RB DT NN IN JJ NN . PRP VBZ VBG IN DT NN IN DT JJ JJ IN NN NNS PRP$ NN POS NNS CC VBZ DT JJ NN RB , IN DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN VBZ VBN RB RB DT CD NNS IN PRP$ NNS . PRP$ JJ NNS MD VB NNS , CC PRP VBZ DT NNS WP MD VB TO VB IN DT NNS IN PRP$ NNS . 
JJ NNPS WP VBP JJ IN DT VBG JJ NN NN VBD IN WP VBZ PRP$ NNS VBZ DT JJ NN TO VBG DT JJ NN IN DT NN . IN JJ , CC RB TO VB RB JJ DT NN IN PRP , PRP VBP TO VB DT NN NNPS VBP NN . NNP NNP , DT NNP . NN IN NN NNS , VBD PRP RB VBD TO VBG DT NN IN JJ NN CC NN RB IN NNS IN DT VBG NNS CC NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN . '' NN IN DT NNP VBZ DT NN IN JJ NN NN IN PRP$ NNP NN : JJ JJ NNS VBP VBN JJ DT JJ NN IN NN CC VBD JJR NNS IN RB IN TO VB JJ NN IN DT NN NN . '' NN , IN DT NN , VBZ JJ NN , JJ NN ( IN NN ) CC DT NN IN NN WDT VBZ JJ RB IN NN . PRP MD VB NN TO JJ NNS WDT VBP IN DT NN IN JJ CC JJ NN VBZ RB RBR DT VBN , CC NNS CC DT IN DT JJ NN NN VBP PRP RB . CD NN IN NN CC NN VBZ JJ IN DT JJR NN , WDT VBZ VBG NN RB IN DT NN , IN NN IN VBZ RB IN NN , '' VBZ NNP NNP , NN NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP CC NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNPS . NNP VBZ VBN IN IN CD , CC IN DT NN WDT VBZ NN NNS , PRP VBZ JJ NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT NN , CC PRP$ NN VBZ VBN IN JJ NNS , IN VBG NNS IN VBG NNS IN DT NN TO VB NNP TO , RB , VBG TO VB DT RB NN IN NN NN IN DT JJ NN . CC PRP VBZ NN NN , NN NN CC NN , NN WDT MD VB VBN IN VBG NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ WP PRP MD VB TO VB JJ , '' NNP VBZ . 
DT NN NNS VBP RB . DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP VBZ IN IN CD NN IN NNPS JJ CC CD NN NN , NN POS NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ CD NNS . '' IN NNP , NNP NNP NNP , WP VBD JJ JJ , VBD NN MD RB VB NN IN DT VBG NN IN JJ NNS IN NNP . IN NNP , EX VBP NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS . IN DT NN , EX VBP NNS IN NNS JJ NN CC NN NNS . IN NNP , CD NN NN VBD NNS TO NNS VBG PRP PRP$ NNS VBD RB JJ . CC VBG DT NNS IN NN VBP DT NNS IN NN CC NN IN , DT VBG NNS VBP , VBP RB TO VB VBN IN NNS . DT NN VBZ VBG IN PRP VBZ JJ TO VB JJ CC DT NN VBZ RB VB TO NN . DT NN , PRP VBP , VBZ IN WRB PRP VBZ TO NN , NN VBZ RB RB IN PRP MD VB . 
IN CD , CD IN CD NNS VBP DT NN IN NN , NNS IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBP VBN . NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS , WP VBD CD NNS VBZ CD TO CD IN NNP , VBD IN DT MD VB RB JJ . PRP MD RB VB TO VB NNS , NNS IN JJ NNS CC RB WP PRP RB VBD . CC JJ IN DT NNS VBP RB IN PRP$ JJ . NNP NNP VBZ TO VB NN IN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN NNS TO VB WRB JJ NN TO NN NN CC NN . JJ VBP VBN TO NNS TO VB DT NNS TO VB WP , IN DT IN JJ NN , RB VBD NNP POS CC JJ NN . RB , DT IN NNP NNP POS NNS VBP DT NNS IN VBG DT NN NN . NNP NNP NNP , IN NN , VBZ PRP$ NN CC VBZ TO VB JJR RB IN JJ NNS JJ NNS JJR . DT JJ JJ NN CC NN NN , PRP VBZ RB VBN PRP$ NN POS NN , PRP VBZ DT NNP NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP DT NN , PRP VBZ NNS IN DT NN , CC PRP VBZ RB , PRP VBD . 
DT NN IN DT NN IN NN IN NN VBZ VBN JJ NNS TO VB PRP$ NN TO VB NN IN DT NN CC VBZ VBN DT NN IN WDT NNS VBP DT JJS ( CC JJS ) NNS . NNP RB VBZ DT NNS JJ TO NNS VBG NN CC VBZ DT NN IN NNS CC JJ JJ NNS . DT NNS VBP VBN IN DT JJ NN NNS . CD NN IN NN VBZ JJ NNS IN NN NN , CC DT NN IN NN NNS VBP VBN VBG IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . IN NNS WP VBP NN NN , DT NN NN VBZ VBN DT JJ NN RB RBR JJ . PRP MD VB WRB TO VB PRP CC WP NN VBZ RBS JJ . DT JJ NN VBZ DT NN IN NN : IN TO VB DT NN RB CC TO VB PRP IN NN NN VBZ VBN , RB CD TO CD NNS IN DT NN . IN NN NNS DT NN CC NN IN DT VBN NN , JJS NNS VBP NNS TO VB NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP . 
IN DT NN IN DT CD NN IN DT NNP NN , NNP NNP . NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNP JJ NN , VBD DT NNS IN JJ NN . NNS MD VB IN NNS CC JJ NN , CC DT NN , PRP VBD , VBD JJ TO VB IN PRP$ NNS : VB NNS CC NN , JJ NNS IN DT NN , JJ NN VBG IN DT NN CC NN , JJ NN . '' DT NNP NN CC NN , NNP NNP , VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN . DT JJ NN , WDT VBD RP IN NNS , VBD VBN NNP CD , CD , CC IN NNP CD , CD , PRP VBD IN PRP$ JJ VBN '' NN . NNP NNP VBD IN NNS MD VB NN CC NN IN CD CC CD NNS . CD DT NNS VBD RB RB VBN , DT NN IN NN , VBG NN NNS IN NN CC NN , RB VBD DT JJ NN , RB VBN IN CC VBN IN NNS IN DT NN , NNS VBP DT JJ NN NN NN , NNS , CC JJ NNS IN DT NN : DT JJ NN NN CC JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , NN , NNS , JJ CC JJ NN , NN , NN , CC RB NN . '' 
DT NNP CC NN : NNP NN VBZ IN NN NNS IN JJ NN . PRP VBZ VBN NNP IN DT NN IN NNP , WRB DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBD VBN CD NNS RB IN NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ JJ JJ NNP NN IN NNS . DT IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP VBZ JJ . DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP NN VBZ RB VBG PRP CD NNS RB , VBG TO NNP NNP . CC NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN WP VBD DT NN CD NNS RB IN NN IN DT NN IN NNP IN DT NNP NNPS , VBD PRP VBD DT NN DT NN IN DT NN CC VBD JJ TO VB DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN NN VBZ NNP '' CD NNS RB . CC JJ JJ NN NNS VBP JJ IN NNS VBN IN NNP , WRB JJR IN CD NNS VBP VBN NNS IN DT NNS . JJ NNS VBG JJ NN NNS VBP JJ NN VBP IN DT NNP NNS VBP RB RB JJ NNS IN JJ NNS TO VB WRB JJ DT NNS JJ . CC , PRP VBP , VBZ RB JJ NNS WDT RB VBZ WP VBZ WRB PRP VBP . 
: : : : : : : : : : NNS IN DT NNP NNP ( IN DT NNP NNP NNP ) NNP , NNP CD : DT NNP NN MD VB NNP TO VB DT NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN VBG NN CC JJ NNS IN NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP VBD NNP . IN NN IN DT NNP NN , NNP NNP VBD DT NN VBD VBG IN NN IN DT NN WDT MD VB DT NNP NNPS TO VB JJ NN VBN TO VB DT JJ JJ NN IN DT VBG NN . DT NN WDT VBZ NNP TO VB NNP NN NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT NN VBZ IN NNP . DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ NNS IN DT NNP NNPS TO NNP IN NNS CC NNS IN DT NN NN IN NNP VBD VBN NNP VB NN CC JJ NN . 
PRP VBZ RB DT JJ NN , IN NN . EX VBZ NN , WDT RB VBZ NN NN . EX VBZ DT NN IN VBG DT NN IN NNS CC NN CC VBG DT JJ CC JJ NN . CC EX VBZ NN IN NNS IN RBR JJ NNS CC , RB , IN JJR NN IN PRP$ NN NNS , VBP JJR CC JJR VBN . CC EX VBZ JJ NN IN DT NN IN NN . CC PRP VBD TO VB PRP WP VBZ NN CC NN , '' VBZ NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP MD VB NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN . '' NNP NNP NNP NNP DT JJ JJ NN TO VB IN NN RB VBZ NNS IN PRP VBP JJR VBD IN DT RBS JJ NN . PRP VBD CD CC DT NNP NNP NN NN , NNP NNP , VBD VBG RB IN DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN IN NN . PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NN VBN IN CD . CD NNS VBD DT NN IN NN CC NN CC VBD DT NN : IN PRP VBP TO VB NN , PRP MD VB RBR NN IN VBG IN NN IN IN VBG IN JJ NN . 
IN DT JJ NN IN NN CC DT NN IN VBG DT NN IN NN , DT JJ NN VBZ JJ , '' DT NNS VBD . NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , WP VBD DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN VBN IN DT JJ NNP IN NNP , VBD RB VB TO NN NNS IN DT JJ NN . DT CD JJ JJ NNS VBN , RB , DT VBD IN NNP VBD RB IN PRP$ NN CC IN DT JJ NNS VBD RB VB VBN JJ NNS . NNS VBP RB VB WP DT JJ NNS NNS IN IN DT NNP NN , '' VBD CD IN PRP , NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . PRP VBD IN PRP VBD VBN IN NNP NNS IN CD IN DT NNP NN VBD IN NN CC IN PRP VBD RB VBN IN PRP VBD VBN VBN . 
DT VBZ WRB IN NNP CD , NNP NNP VBD NNP NNP NNS IN PRP$ NN IN NNP , NNP , TO VB PRP TO DT NN . PRP VBD VBN TO DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP POS NNP NNP , WRB NNS VBD PRP VBD VBN DT JJ NN NN . IN DT NN , NNS VBD IN CD IN NNP NNP POS NNS VBD CD NN VBN . CC PRP VBD DT NNP NN VBD DT NN NN RB IN DT JJ NN , IN DT JJ NNS VBD VBN VBG NN IN JJ NNS . RB JJ IN NNP NNP POS NN NN VBD VBN VBN , PRP VBD . NNP NNP , WP VBD VBN IN CD NNS IN DT NN , VBZ VBN IN JJ NNS IN JJ NN CC DT NN IN NN NN . VBG NNS WDT VBD RB VB DT NN RBR , NNS IN NNP VBD DT JJ JJ NN CC VBD DT JJ NN , CC NN NN , TO VB DT NN JJ IN DT NN VBN NN . 
NNP NNP NNP NN , NNP NNP NNP PRP VBP VBN IN DT NNP . NN . PRP VBP CD , CC PRP VBP VBD CD NNP . POS , CC DT VBP VBN JJ . PRP MD VB DT CD RB CC WRB PRP VBP CD , PRP MD VB VBG PRP DT NN . DT NN VBZ RB JJR IN JJ NNS . PRP VBZ VBN RB TO NN IN PRP . PRP$ NN VBD JJ NN , IN PRP VBD RB VB IN PRP , CC RB JJ IN PRP$ NN NNS . WRB PRP VBP CD NNS JJ , WDT VBZ WRB PRP$ NN VBZ JJ , CC DT VBZ WRB PRP VBP TO VB VBG DT NNP . NN . PRP VBP PRP VB IN JJ NN IN DT NN , VBG TO JJ NNS CC NN NNS , CC RB VBG TO VB NN TO PRP$ NNS . WRB PRP VBP NNS PRP VBP DT NN , PRP VBP IN NN : RB RB JJ IN DT NN NN CC DT NN . DT NN VBZ RB VBN TO VB NN VB PRP . CC PRP VBP PRP , PRP MD VB IN DT NNS . PRP VBP IN RB RB IN JJ NNPS IN NNS VBP IN NN NN . 
NNP NNP VBD IN NN FW CC IN DT NN IN NN IN PRP VBZ VBN CC IN DT NN IN DT NN . '' DT NNS VBD PRP TO NNP , DT NN VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN . PRP VBD IN JJ NNS VBP JJR IN PRP IN JJR NNS CC IN DT NN VBZ JJ NNS VBP JJR . NNP RB VBP JJR WRB PRP VBP PRP , CC PRP VBP NN . JJ NNS WP VBD JJ NN NNS , WDT RB VBP IN DT NN IN NN , VBP VBN JJ '' NNP NNS , NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP RB VBN IN CD NN NNS VBP PRP RB JJ TO VB NN VBZ IN DT NN VBZ JJ NNS TO VB PRP . NN IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN NN IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC MD VB VBN , CC PRP VBP DT JJ JJ NN IN CC NN RB . CC DT NN PRP VBP VBN IN DT CC DT NN IN NN . PRP VBP RB VB PRP , PRP RB RB VB PRP$ NN NN . '' 
NNP NNP VBD IN NNS VBN IN NNS VBP RB VB TO VB '' JJ NNS POS VBZ DT RB JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . FW NN VBZ RB VB IN DT JJ NNS VBP VBG TO VB DT JJ NN . CC IN EX VBZ DT NN RB IN VBZ JJR NN CC VBZ JJR NN , RB PRP MD VB PRP . '' NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP IN DT JJ NN VBG WDT NNS IN NN NN MD VB VB IN DT JJR NN JJ NN IN JJ NNS , VBN IN JJ JJ NNS , VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP . PRP VBZ DT NN NN IN NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . ( DT NN VBZ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP . ) 
RB , DT NNS VBP TO NN . RB , DT NN IN NN VBD JJ : DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN : CC IN DT NN IN NN WDT VBD NN IN DT NN IN DT NN , NN NNS VBD PRP VBD DT JJ NN : NN IN JJ NNS '' IN JJ NNS VBD JJ IN JJ NNS . VBG IN DT , CC NN IN DT NN IN VBG NNP , PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN VBG NN , WDT VBZ VBN RB JJ . JJ NN , CD NN NNS VBD VBN VBG NN . RB , JJR IN CD JJ NN NNS VBP VBG VBN WDT MD VB DT NN , CC IN VBG PRP RBR JJ TO VB DT NN CC IN VBG NNS TO VB . RB , DT NN VBN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , MD VB DT NN VBG DT NN TO VB VBN DT , IN IN CD NNS , DT NN MD VB NN , CC IN PRP VB VBN DT NN IN VBG PRP IN NNS . PRP VBZ RB VBN IN NNP , CC DT NN IN DT NN NN '' VBZ RB VBN , CC CD NNS VBP VBN JJ NN . DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , WDT NNP NNP VBD IN CD , VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN CD NNS : CD IN DT NN CC CD IN PRP JJ NN . PRP VBD VBN IN NN NNS NNS IN DT NN IN VBG JJ JJ NN TO DT NN . 
NNP NNP VBD . PRP MD RB VB PRP RP , '' PRP VBD , '' PRP MD VB RB JJ . '' NNP NNP VBD IN PRP$ NN , NNP , VBZ JJ IN PRP$ NN TO NNS WP VBP NN VBD PRP$ NN NN . IN NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD PRP MD VB VBN IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBZ WP NNS VBP CC PRP VBZ RB VB TO VB DT NN . WRB NNS VBP , PRP VBD , NNP JJ NN NN NNS VBP PRP , '' VBP RB VB JJ NN '' CC VB IN VBG JJ NN TO VB PRP RB , WRB PRP VBP VBG IN NN CC NN . IN IN NNP NNP , PRP VBZ RB NN IN DT NN IN NNP NNP , DT NN CC NN NN IN NN NNS , CC PRP VBZ RB VB TO VB NNS WP PRP VBZ : IN NN VBD PRP$ NN , IN NN VBD DT NN IN DT NN NN NNS WDT VBP RB IN PRP$ NN , CC IN NN MD RB VB VBN PRP$ NN , RB . 
DT NNS VBP VBN RP DT NN IN NNS VBG TO VB NNS TO VB VBN IN JJ NN , NN IN DT JJR NN IN JJ NN . CC VBG JJ NNS MD VB VBG DT NN RB RB IN JJ NNS CC IN JJ NNS , IN JJS NN NNS VBP IN CC VB VBN IN NN NNS CC JJ NNS . DT NNS CC NN NNS VBP IN DT JJ JJ NN MD VB DT NN IN NN NN , WDT VBZ VBN IN CD NNS IN RB JJ NNS , JJ JJ NNS CC VBD NNS , IN EX VBP VBN DT JJ NNS IN NN . CC MD VB RB TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN JJ NN : RB TO VB RB JJ RB JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , JJ NNS , IN DT NN IN DT NNP NN IN NNP NNP . PRP VBD PRP VBP NNS IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS '' IN JJ JJ NN . 
JJ NN NNS RB VBP JJ NNS IN NNS IN DT NN VB VBN CC VBN IN DT NN . CC EX VBD RB DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NN NNS . IN NN , DT NNS VBD NN IN WRB DT NNS VBD VBN . '' VBZ PRP JJ IN WP VBD VBN TO VB PRP MD RB VB VBN NNS JJR . '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBN VBN NN IN CD . 
DT NNS VBP JJ VBG DT JJ NN WDT VBZ VB DT NN NNS IN IN PRP MD VB RB JJ IN VBG VBG NN NNS . WRB DT NN VBZ JJ TO VB PRP$ NNS , DT VBG NN VBZ DT NN , VBG DT NNS RB TO PRP$ JJ NN . PDT DT NN VBZ RB VBN JJ : NN POS NNS VBP $ CD IN DT NN NN NN , $ CD DT NN IN NN , CC NNS MD VB TO VB DT JJ $ CD TO $ CD IN DT JJ NN NNS . NN VBZ JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' IN PRP VBP IN PRP IN NNS IN JJ NNS IN VBG DT NN RB IN NN : JJ IN NNP , NN NNS CC NN : DT VBP DT RB JJ , RB . '' DT NNP NNP NNP NN NNS RB TO NNS WP VBP JJ IN VBG RP PRP$ JJ NNS . DT NNP NN NNS IN NNS NN VBP JJ VBG JJ NNS CC VBG JJ NNS . '' 
NNP NNP POS NN TO VB DT JJ NN VBZ RB JJ , VBG WRB JJ PRP$ JJ NN : CC DT JJ JJ NN '' NN WDT VBZ NNS RB VB IN DT JJ VBZ IN NN : VBP VBN TO PRP$ NN IN DT RBS JJ NN IN DT NNP . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN PRP VBP PRP$ $ CD IN NNP DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC RB CD NNS RB , NNP NNP VBD IN PRP MD RB VB NN NNS VBD TO PRP$ JJ JJ NN . IN DT NN VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WDT NN IN DT NNP NN MD VB CC VB JJ TO VB JJ NNS TO DT NNP NNP NNS CC DT JJ NNP NNP NNP NN . NNP NNP VBZ NNP NNP NNS WP VBP JJ NNS IN NN TO RB VB PRP IN NN , RB IN PRP$ NN NNS VBP RB VB DT NNP NNP NN NN . CC DT NN RB VBZ NNS TO VB DT JJ NNP NN NN RB CC RB VB VBG IN PRP$ NNS . 
NNP NNP , WP VBD VBG PRP$ NN VBD , VBD DT NN NN IN NNP . NNP NNP VBD DT NN CC VBD DT NN . IN NNS , NNP NNP VBD VBG RB . IN NNS IN NNP VBD VBG NN IN NN NNS NNS RB , PRP VBZ VBN DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP NNPS RB IN DT JJ JJ NNS . JJ NNS VBP IN DT NN VBZ VBG TO VB NN CC NN NNS IN DT NN WDT VBP RB VB RP IN NNS CC VB RB JJ TO VB NNS . IN DT NN , NNS WP IN CD NNS RB MD VB VBN NN NNS CC NN NN VBP RB VBG VBN IN RBR JJ NNS IN VBG NN NN . NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN POS NN NNS VBP . '' CC JJ NNS CC NNS VBP IN NN NN MD VB VBN IN VBG NNS WDT VBP VBN VBN IN JJ NN . JJ NN MD VB DT JJ NN , PRP VBP , VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN NN VBZ JJ NN IN DT NNS . 
DT NNP NNP IN NNP VBZ TO VB . IN NNP , DT NN VBD DT NN VBN IN DT NNP NN NN , NNP , WDT VBD TO VB DT NN TO JJ VB NN IN PRP$ NNS CC NN NNS DT JJ NN . RB , IN DT NNS VBP , NN VBZ IN DT NN IN DT NN . NNP , DT NN WDT MD VB JJ NN IN JJ NN IN NNP , VBD NNS VBN IN NNP WDT VBP DT NN NN : DT NN WDT VBD JJ NNS RBR DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP . IN DT JJ NN NN , PRP VBP RB VBN IN RB DT NN POS NN IN DT NN NNS , '' DT NN VBD IN DT NN NN VBG PRP$ JJ NN NNP NNP '' CD NNS RB . DT NN VBD NNS IN NNP TO JJ NNS : VBG NNP , NNP , NNP CC NNP : VBN IN PRP$ NN IN NN IN NN JJ NN . NNP , WP$ NNS MD RB RB VBP JJ NN , VBD DT JJ , IN NNP VBD VBN DT NNP . NNP NNP , DT VBG NN WDT MD VB RB IN JJ NN IN NNP CD , VBD DT NNP . 
IN DT NN , CD NN IN DT NNP NN IN DT CD NNS VBZ DT JJ . RB IN DT VBG CD NN VBZ DT JJ NN , IN DT JJ JJ NN EX VBP IN CD CD NNS IN DT NN WRB NNS IN NNS VBP JJ . JJS IN DT NN NNS VB IN NNS IN DT NN WDT VBP RB VB TO VB JJ IN NN . RB RB DT JJ CD VBP NNS IN DT NN VB WRB NNS VBP , CC RB DT JJ CD , RB RB TO VB VBN , VBP JJ TO VB IN JJ JJ NN . DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN IN JJ JJ JJ CC JJ NNS , RB IN IN JJ NN IN NN TO VB . RB , JJS JJ JJ NN VBZ IN NN TO NN IN DT JJ NN . NNP NN : NNP , NNP , NNP CC NNP : VBZ DT NN . DT JJ JJ NNS VBP NNS IN JJ NN NNS . DT NN IN NNS IN DT JJ NN NN NNS IN CD NN TO DT , CC DT NN VBZ JJ . VB CD NNS IN DT JJ NN VBP DT JJ NN IN VBG IN PRP$ NN NN . 
IN DT NN TO DT NN , NNS IN NNP VBD DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS TO VB PRP$ NN IN JJ NNS . DT NN RB VBD IN DT NN MD VB VBN IN NN IN DT VBG NN IN NNS TO VB NN , VBG NNS IN NN , NNP NN , NNS CC JJ NNS IN NNS VBG DT NN . RB RB CD NNS VBP VBN TO VB NNS IN JJ NN . CD IN PRP , NNP , IN NNP NNPS , VBZ VBN VBN TO JJ NN NN . DT JJ , JJ IN NNP , VBZ NN CC NN . NN POS NN VBD IN DT JJ NN IN JJ VBD JJ IN DT NN POS NN IN DT NN NN NNP . DT NN VBZ VBG VBN IN NNP , WDT VBD JJ NNS TO DT NN IN NNP CC VBD NNP . NN DT NN TO VB DT NN RB TO NNS . NNP NNP IN NNP NNP VBD NNP POS NNS IN NN VBD JJ TO DT IN JJ NNS RB VBN : DT CD NN NN VBN IN DT NN IN NN . 
NNP NNS RB VBD RB VB IN JJ NNS TO DT IN DT NN POS NNS , CC VBD TO NNS IN PRP$ NNS IN VBD JJ NN IN DT NNS , CC DT NNS . JJS NNS VBD NNS TO VB PRP$ NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NNP POS JJ NN IN JJ CC JJ NNS , CC CD NN TO CD NN VBD PRP VBD VBN IN PRP$ NNS CD NNS RB . EX VBD NNS , CC , NNP NNP VBD , IN DT NN , DT NN NNS IN NN NNS VBD DT JJ CC JJR IN IN NNP POS JJ NNS , WDT VBP IN DT NN . IN NN , DT NN IN CD NNS IN VBG DT NN WDT MD VB VBN CC VBN IN PRP VBZ IN NN VBD JJR IN CD NN IN DT NNS WP VBD NN NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS IN VBN IN CD NN IN DT IN JJ NNS , VBG TO NN NNS . DT NN IN DT NN MD VB VBD CD NN IN JJ NNS IN VBN IN CD NN IN NN . 
NNP NNP VBD VBG CD NNS IN JJ NNS IN NN TO VB DT NN RP . '' CC VBD DT NNS MD VB RP PRP$ NN CC NN , WDT MD VB NN IN DT NNS , CC RB NNS MD VB NN , '' PRP VBD . IN DT NN IN NN WRB PRP VBD DT NN RB IN NNS IN PRP$ NNS POS NN NNS , PRP VBD IN NNP NN IN DT NN '' CC VBD DT NNS RP PRP$ NNP NNS . CD VBD , '' PRP VBD . '' VBD . '' NNP NNP , CD , DT NN , VBD IN DT RB JJR JJ NN VBN IN NNP NNP . PRP VBD VBN , PRP VBD , IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN WRB PRP VBD VBN CC VBD RB JJ IN VBG PRP$ NNS IN NN . PRP VBD VBN TO VB VBG DT NN IN CD NNP CC NN NNS , VBG NNS , NN , NN CC NNP . NN VBD RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBD RB JJ , CC PRP VBD NN NN . '' 
CC DT DT IN RB CD NNS . PRP VBZ VBN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN CC JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP . PRP VBZ VBN JJR JJ IN DT IN DT JJ NNS IN PRP VBP VBN DT NN IN NN IN . '' JJ NNS VBP RB VBN . '' VBZ RB , RB JJ CC JJ NN CC RB , RB VBD , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . PRP VBD NNP NNP POS JJ NN . '' CC NNP NNP , CD , VBZ RB DT JJ NN , IN DT PRP VBZ DT NN RB RB IN DT NN . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN : JJ NNS VBD NNS CC NNS . NN VBZ DT JJ NN WP VBZ VBG TO VB IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ RB DT NN IN NN WP MD VB DT NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN . '' NNP NNP , IN NNS WP$ JJ NNS VBP IN DT CC DT NNP . NN , VBZ PRP JJ TO VB NNP NNP . DT NN NN VBZ CD NN CC RB DT , NN NNS VBP JJ IN CD NN , JJ IN DT . PRP VBZ IN RB DT IN DT JJ NN VBP DT JJ NN . 
DT NN MD VB $ CD CD IN DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NNS IN NNS IN DT CD NNP NNP NN , DT NN IN NNS NNS , NNP NNP NNP , VBD NNP . PRP VBD PRP MD VB IN DT NN IN NNS , CC RB DT NN CC JJ NNS RB VBN IN DT NN IN DT NNS POS NN NNS . NNP NNP RB VBD DT NN MD VB DT NN NN TO VB NNS IN JJ NN NNS . CC NNS CC NNS WP VBP RB VB PRP$ JJ NN TO PRP$ NNS , TO PRP$ NNS , TO PRP$ NNS , '' PRP VBD . NNS VBP VBN VBN RB RB JJ . '' PRP VBD PRP$ NN VBD VBN IN DT NNS IN DT NN IN NNS CC NNS IN PRP VBD IN CD TO VB DT NNS IN NNS IN NNS CC NNS WDT VBD IN DT NN . IN DT NN VBN IN DT NN NN RB , DT NN , DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP POS NNS , VBD IN RBR NN NNS IN VBG TO JJ NNS IN DT NN , RB DT NNS IN NN NN , IN DT JJ NN IN WP VBZ RB VBN VBN NNP NNP NNP . 
NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP POS JJ NN NN , MD VB DT NN TO VB PRP$ NN NN IN PRP VBD VBN JJ NN CC VBN IN PRP VBP NNS WDT RB VBP NNS , DT NN NN VBD NNP . DT NN IN DT NN , IN NNP NNP NNP WRB NNP NNP VBD PRP$ NN , VBD IN PRP VBD RB RB RB VB PRP$ NN IN DT NN VBN IN DT NN NN IN NNP , CC VBD DT JJ NN . CC RB PRP MD RB VB DT NN NNS VBG NNP NNP POS CD NN WDT RB VBP DT NN IN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN POS NN IN NN NNS , IN DT NN . VBG TO PRP$ NN , NNP NNP POS NN VBZ RB VB JJ NNS TO VB IN PRP VBZ VBN JJ NN NNS . '' EX VBD DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP , WP VBD JJ NN IN NNS IN PRP$ NN CC VBD IN DT NN . 
DT JJ NN VBZ RB CD NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT NN NN NNS VBD DT NN NN IN NN CC NN VBD VBG DT JJ CD NNS DT NN CC VBD VBN TO VB NN IN DT NN POS VBG JJ NN IN JJ NN . DT NN VBD DT NN , CC NNS , RB DT WP VBP DT NNS IN NN , VBD DT NN POS NNS . IN NNP , DT NN POS NNS VBD NN NNS CC VBD DT JJ NN IN CD NNS . RB DT JJ NN VBZ IN NN CC JJ NN VBP VBG IN CD JJ NNS CC DT NN VBZ VBG IN CD , VBG DT JJ NN IN DT CD NNS IN DT CD NNS VBN , VBN IN DT CD JJ NNS VBN IN DT WP VBP JJ . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP IN DT NNP , VBD IN DT JJ NN VBD VBN JJ NNS CC JJ NNS IN NN . 
IN DT NN IN NNP , RB , CD NN VBD VB DT NN . DT JJ NNS RB , DT NN VBD DT JJ NN IN NNP POS NN TO DT NN . RB , PRP VBD IN NNP MD VB PRP$ NN IN DT , RB JJ NNS VBD VBN TO VB PRP$ JJ NN . NNP , IN PRP$ NN , VBD PRP MD VB VBG NNS . NN MD VB RB : VBZ PRP RB VBZ IN WP VBZ VBG . NNP NNP , NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBZ RB IN NN IN DT NNP . 
CC DT JJ NN VBZ JJ . IN DT NN IN NN , NNS MD RB VB IN DT JJ RB VBD IN NNP NN . NNP NNP VBD DT NN NN NN : DT NN NN IN WDT DT NN NN VBZ VBN , DT JJ NN WDT DT JJ NN NNS MD VB VBN , CC RB . CC IN DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP , PRP VBD PRP JJ VBD RB JJ NN . DT CD NN . DT NNS VBP VBN DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN NNS , DT NN IN JJ NN . RB , DT JJ NNS VBP VBN JJ TO VB DT NN CC VB NNS . CC DT JJ NN IN DT NN : VBD RB IN NNS IN JJ IN DT NN NNS CC JJ JJ NNS : VBZ RB DT NN IN JJ NNS , JJ NN CC JJ NNS WDT VBD NNS CC NN NNS TO VB DT NN TO JJ NNS CC , IN DT NN NN , TO DT JJ NN . 
IN PRP VBP RP NN NNS , DT NN IN NNS CC NN VBZ JJR IN DT CD NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC JJ NN NN IN DT JJ NNS TO DT JJR NN IN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT JJ . '' NNS IN DT JJ NN NNS VBP PRP VBP VBN PRP$ JJS TO VB DT NN RP . CD NNS RB , DT NNP NNPS IN NNP VBD DT JJ JJ NNS CC NNS TO VB NN NN RBR RB IN NNS IN NNS . IN JJ NNS , DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ VBN DT JJ NN VBN NNP DT NNP : NNS , NNP NNP CC NNP , VBN IN DT NNS CC NNS . JJ NNS VBP VBN DT JJ . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP CC DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN RB IN DT JJ NN IN NN , DT NN IN NNS CC NN NNS VBD RB VBN VBN . JJ NN IN DT NNP . CC NNS VBZ VBN JJ IN TO VB JJ NN IN NNS , DT NN VBZ TO VB NN NN , NN CC NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
CC NNS RB VBD EX VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN MD VB IN DT JJ NN CC VB PRP IN . NNS VBP DT VBZ WP VBD IN DT JJ NN NN IN NNP . DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ RB VBN VBN CC DT NNS VBP PRP VBP VBN DT NN VBZ JJ . CC IN DT JJ NN , NNS VBD IN DT NN VBD JJ . EX VBP VBN RB CD CC CD NNS VBG JJR IN CD NNS IN DT NNP NNPS IN VBD VBG NNS TO VB NNS IN NN NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP CC DT NN NN NN IN NNP POS NNP IN NNP NNP . JJS VBD VBN CC DT NN , CC NN VBD VBN DT JJ NN . CD JJ NN VBZ WRB VBP PRP VBG DT DT IN DT JJ IN CD NNS IN DT NN CC RB PDT DT JJ NNS . '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBD VBG CD NNS VBN IN DT NNP . POS NN . PRP VBD CD NN MD VB IN NN NN VBZ VBN RBR JJ . DT VBZ IN EX MD VB NN JJ TO DT NN VBD CC TO DT NN VBN IN DT JJ NN . 
DT NNS VBD VBG WRB DT JJ NNS IN DT NN NNS VBD VBN VBG . DT NN VBD DT JJ IN IN NNS . NNP DT NNS VBP DT JJ NN , NNP , WDT VBZ RB VBG IN NN NN . DT NN VBZ DT JJ IN VBG RP DT JJ NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ DT NN NN . IN NNP , NNS VBP RB . RB DT NNS VBP IN PRP$ NN NN . DT VBD PRP$ NN RB . NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS VBD DT NN IN NNS , VBG NN NNS RB . RB PRP VBD WP MD VB IN NN NNS IN NNS VBD RB RB NNP CC RB NN , DT JJ NN . CD NN VBD RB VBG , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN VBD DT RB JJ NN . PRP MD VB DT NN IN DT JJ NNS . '' RB PRP VBZ TO VB NNS IN NN NNS RB TO DT NN NN . CC MD VB IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN DT , PRP VBD , PRP VBZ DT JJ NN WRB DT NN NN NNS IN CC NNS VBP NN . 
NNP NNP VBD PRP$ NN VBD RB JJ IN DT NN POS NNS , VBG JJ NNS CC NN IN JJ JJ NNS . PRP VBD IN DT NN RB VBD DT NN , IN WDT , PRP VBD , DT NN VBD JJ CC RB JJ . DT VBZ DT NN IN DT NN MD VB DT NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ CC JJ NN WDT MD RB VB VBN VBN IN PRP$ NN IN PRP VBD RB VBN VBN . DT NN VBD IN DT JJ NNS VBG NN VBD NNS , VBG PRP TO VB DT NN IN NN '' RB IN NN . '' WDT VBD PRP$ NN IN NNS . '' JJ NNS , DT NN NN IN NN NN VBZ JJ RB IN NNS IN DT NNS MD VB CC VB PRP , '' DT NN VBD IN PRP$ NN . CC , PRP VBP IN IN DT NNS VBD VBN IN NN CC NN , EX VBZ JJ NN TO VB IN JJS VBD RB VBN CC VBN CC RB JJ . '' 
IN DT NN WDT MD VB DT IN DT JJ NNS VBG NN NN NN , DT NN RB VBZ PRP VBZ VBN NN NNS WDT MD VB IN NN NNS VBG DT NN IN NN WDT MD RB VB IN DT NN . DT NN , VBN IN NN , VBZ CD IN JJ JJ NNS WDT VBP DT NN IN JJ NN IN VBG NN NNS . DT NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBZ NNS TO VB DT NN TO VB IN DT NN IN NNS IN VBG VBN IN DT NN POS NN . JJ NN , RB IN VBN IN DT NN , MD RB VB TO VB JJ NNS , NNP NNP CC JJ NNS VBD . CC DT NN MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NNS , RB RB TO VB DT NN IN NN NNS . JJ NN NNS MD VB IN RB DT NNS IN DT NN POS NNS , RB VBG NN NNS WDT MD VB VBN IN NNS TO VB NNS . CC NNS VBP JJ NN VBZ JJ IN VBG NN NNS VBZ VBG NN , WDT PRP VBP IN JJ JJ NN . 
CD NNS VBP VBN TO VB VBN IN NNS IN WDT DT NNP NN JJ , IN DT NN IN NNS VBZ RB RBR IN NNS RB RB VBD JJ IN DT NN . NNP NNP VBD DT NN VBD TO VB VBG JJ NNS TO DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NNS CC VBD DT NN TO VB VBN IN NNP . PRP VBD IN CD NN DT NN VBD VBD VBG NNS WP VBD RB VB JJ NNS TO NN NN NNS . DT NN POS NN VBZ RB IN NN IN DT NN VBN IN DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ TO VB NNP CD . JJ NN , IN DT NN IN NNS IN NNP CC JJ NN NNS , DT NN VBD DT NN NN TO VB NNS TO VB DT NN CC NN IN NN IN NN NN . DT NNP , NNP CC JJ NNS IN NN NNS , IN NNP CC NNP NNP NNP , VBP VBN VBN IN VBG DT NN NNS . 
IN PRP VBP DT NN IN DT JJ NN , DT NN MD RB VB VBN TO VB RB VBN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP . CC VBG IN DT JJ NN , PRP CC NNS VBD , VBZ DT NNS VBN IN JJ NN NN CC DT RB RBR JJ NNS RB . 
VBG IN NN NN RB RB RB IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS . IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , EX VBD NN IN NNS MD VB . NNP NNS VBD DT NN WDT JJ NN VBD TO VB . CD NN VBD NNS IN IN PRP VBD RB VB PRP$ NNS , PRP MD VB PRP$ NNS VBN . NN IN NN RB VBD PRP DT NN . NNS IN NN VBN JJ JJ NNS TO VB TO VB PRP$ NN . IN DT NN VBN IN DT CD POS CC CD POS , DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP VBD IN NNS CD TO CD JJ JJ NN VBD DT CD NN JJR NN IN VBG IN NN NN IN DT VBG NN RBR JJ IN DT NN . NNS IN NNP VBD DT NNS . CC DT NNS VBD IN NNS RB VBD TO VB IN RB JJ NNS PRP VBD VBN IN JJ NN . NNS VBD IN NN , RB IN NNS IN PRP$ CD POS , VBD VB JJ NNS CC VBD TO JJ JJ NNS IN NNS WDT VBD RB JJ . NNS IN JJ NN IN NNS JJ DT NNS IN NNS IN VBG NN RB RB JJ IN JJ NN . 
'' DT NN IN NNS , PRP VBP DT NN CC TO VB JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBD . CC VBP PRP$ RBS JJ NN IN JJ NN . '' CC JJ NNS VBP DT JJ NN . NNS VBP PRP$ NNS CC NNS , CC DT WP VBP TO VB NN NNS CC NN , IN NN , VBP RB JJ IN DT WP VBP RB . NNS WP VBP JJ NN NN , IN NN , VBP RB , RBR JJ TO VB JJ NNS , RBR JJ TO VB CC VB RB CC RBR JJ TO VB . IN PRP VBP JJR IN JJ NNS , VBZ PRP DT NNS , DT JJ NN CC DT NN IN NNS . NNPS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS IN PRP$ NNS . CC PRP VBP TO VB IN PRP VBD RB VB JJ RB JJ NNS CC IN PRP VBP VBN PDT DT JJ NNS WRB PRP VBD PRP$ NNS . 
DT NN IN NN , WDT VBZ NN , VBG CC NN IN NN , VBZ VBG , IN NNS WDT VBP RB RB JJ . PRP VBZ JJ IN CD CD NN NN NNS , RB CD NNS CC JJR IN CD NNS DT NN . WRB DT NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN PRP VBZ DT NN VBN NN NNP NNP , IN PRP VBZ VBN , VBZ TO VB NN NNS IN NN NNS IN NN , WDT IN NN NN NN CC NN IN DT NNS . NN VBZ DT RB VBN NN VBD DT JJ NN WDT VBZ TO NNP CC VBZ PRP , VBG DT NN NN IN VBG . JJ NNS , IN NNS , VBD RP DT NNS VBN IN DT NN VBZ RB VBN . NNP , WDT MD VB JJ NN NNS , VB DT NN NN RB . NN POS NN VBZ NN IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP , NNP PRP$ NN VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS , RB IN PRP$ JJ NN NN , NNP , VBD VBN TO VB NNS IN NNS IN NN NN . 
RB NNP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNP . 
IN DT JJ NN , DT NNS VBP IN RB DT CD NN NN IN NN VBZ JJ TO VB NN . CC RB VBP RB VB JJ NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS IN WP DT NNS CC NNS VBP IN DT JJ TO JJ JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN NNP , NNS IN DT NN VBP RB RB JJ NN . DT NN IN VBG NNS VBZ IN PRP VBZ RB JJ IN IN VBG JJ NN IN DT NN TO CD NN IN CD NN DT JJ NN MD VB VBN . IN NNP NNP , NNS VBP NN IN NN WP VBZ DT JJ JJ NN NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP . NNP , NN IN NN NN RB . NNS VBP VBN JJ JJ NNS CC DT JJ NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS MD VB NNS IN DT NNS , CC EX VBP DT NN IN NNS IN NNS IN DT JJ NN . '' NN IN DT NNS PRP VBD VBD VBN IN DT NN , IN . 
NNP VBD PRP , VBG DT JJ NNP NN CC VBG PRP$ JJ JJ NN , JJ NNS , JJ JJ NN CC NN NN . PRP$ JJ NN VBZ VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN PRP . DT NNS VBP VBN IN NN IN PRP$ NN , NNP , DT JJ JJ NN , IN WDT PRP VBZ RB JJ CC VBG IN DT VBD CC DT JJ . PRP VBD VBG WRB PRP VBZ IN JJ NNS RB RB VBP TO VB NNS CC NNS CC IN PRP MD DT VBP TO VB PRP IN DT NN . ( NNP NN VBD RB VBN PRP TO VB WP VBD RB IN DT NN , CC PRP RB VBP IN NNP POS NN IN NN CC NNS VBP JJ VBG DT NN NN NNS , IN PRP VBP PRP RB VBD NN NN . ) PRP RB VBD IN WRB , IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN , PRP$ NN VBZ VBN IN JJ NN CC PRP MD RB VB VBG CC VBG IN NNS IN JJ NNP NNP , '' RB IN JJ NNP MD RB VB VBG CC VBG IN NNS IN JJ NNP . '' 
DT WP$ NN VBZ VBN RB VBP CD NNS VBG TO VB IN DT NN CC DT NN : DT WP VBP RB IN CC VBN MD VB TO VB IN PRP . JJ NNS VBP , NNP NNP VBD , CC NN RB VBZ VBG TO VB IN DT NN . CC WP VBD RB JJ TO DT NNS VBG DT NNP . NNS IN NN VBD IN NN , WDT RB RB VBD TO VB DT NN IN NN , VBD VBN RB DT NN IN NN TO DT NNS . PRP DT VBD RB VBN IN DT NN IN NN CC VBD VBN VBN RB RB JJ TO VB PRP . NNP MD VB VBN IN NN IN DT NN . IN CD , IN CD NNS IN VBG TO VB NN TO VB RP NN NNS IN DT NN , DT NN IN JJS NNS , NNS VBD IN NN VBD . NNP JJ JJ NN VBD IN , IN PRP , IN CD NN IN CD VBD JJ NN . IN PRP , CD IN CD NNS . 
NNS IN NN VBP RB JJ . IN JJ NNS CC PRP$ NNS VBP IN JJ NNS IN NN CD IN JJ CC JJ , EX VBP RB VBN JJ NNS . PRP$ JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS MD VB TO VB VBN RB VBN IN DT NN VBD DT NN IN DT NNP , VBG IN NNS WP VBP VBN NN IN NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT WP VBP RB . CC DT NN IN NN NN NN VBZ RB RB RB VBN . IN JJS IN DT JJ NN , NNS VBD IN NN NN VBD DT JJ NN IN RB VB TO DT NN IN DT NN RB IN PRP$ NN . JJ NN , PRP VBD , VBD IN DT NN MD VB VBN CC VBN IN PRP MD VB . IN PRP VBD JJ NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP VBD IN DT CD POS TO VB NNS TO VB JJ NNS CC IN DT CD POS TO VB NNS . 
DT NNP NN VBZ DT JJ JJ RB TO VB NNS IN NN , DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP VBD NN , IN PRP VBD DT JJ CC JJ NN IN NN . JJ NN , NNS IN DT NNP POS NNP IN NNP IN NNP , DT NN IN NNP , VBD DT NN VB NN IN DT JJ NN CC VBD PRP$ JJ NNS , IN PRP VBZ RB JJ WDT , IN DT , IN DT CD NNS VBD TO PRP$ JJ NN . NNP NNP NNP IN DT NN NN NN VBD DT NN POS . '' CC RB DT NNS WP VBD NN IN DT NN VBD DT NN MD VB TO VB VBN RB IN DT NN MD VB VBN DT NN CC DT NN . WDT VBP TO VB DT NN VBD RB IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNS WP VBD DT NN IN NNS IN DT JJ NN , NNP NNP , CD . CD RB , PRP VBZ DT NN . '' 
IN DT NN VBD RB JJ , NNP NNP POS NN CC DT JJ JJ NN VBD VBN PRP$ DT RB CC RB . WRB PRP RB VBD NN , PRP VBD PRP JJ NNS TO VB . PRP VBZ RB VBG PRP$ NN NNS . NNP NNP . NN IN DT NNS VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ JJ NN NN . IN NNP NN CC NN IN JJ NNS , NNS MD RB VB JJ CC NN NNS . DT NNS VBP DT NN IN JJ NN , WDT VBZ RB VBN DT NN IN NN NN . CC IN DT NN IN JJ VBG NNS , IN JJ NN ( NNP . ) VBG IN NN NN CC NN IN NN NN , PRP$ NN TO VB JJ NNS CC JJ JJ NNS VBZ IN JJR JJ NN . IN DT NNS , PRP VBP RB VBG JJ NNS WDT MD RB RB VB DT NN CC NN NNS WDT VBP RB VBN CC VBP RB RB JJ '' IN DT . 
DT NN RB VBD DT NN , DT NN IN NN , IN DT NN . JJ NNS IN NN RB VB NN , CC DT VBZ CD IN PRP . NNS MD RB VB IN DT NN IN EX VBP DT NN NNS TO VB DT NNS . NNP JJ , PRP VBZ VBN TO VB , VBG RB IN VBG NN . IN NN , DT NN VBD RB VBN DT NN IN NNP POS NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN , VBG RP IN DT NN . IN DT NN VBD , NNP MD RB RB VBP IN JJ NN NN CC NN . DT NN VBD IN NNP VBD RB RB JJ IN NN . PRP VBD VBG TO VB DT JJ NN , VBG NN IN DT JJ NN CC DT NN IN DT NN , DT JJ NN NN VBG IN DT NN , CC NN IN NN NNS . IN VBG DT JJ CC DT JJ , '' NNP VBD VBN DT NN CC DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NN . PDT DT VBD RP TO DT JJ NN NN IN IN CD NN . DT NN VBD IN NN NNS CC VBD IN EX VBD NNS TO VB DT NN . NNS VBP RB VB IN PRP VBZ JJ CC JJ , '' PRP VBD , '' IN DT NN CC NN PRP VBP RB VBN IN VBG NN IN JJ NNS . '' 
NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP NN , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , NNP . PRP VBP RB VB VBG IN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN PRP VBP IN PRP$ NNS . PRP VBZ CD IN DT DT NNS WRB PRP VBZ IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBZ JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ RB VB . PRP VBP VB TO VB NN , VBG IN NN CD . CC IN PRP VBP DT NN WP VBZ IN RB JJ NN IN NN NN , VBN IN PRP$ NN NN CC NN NN , RB PRP VBP PRP VBZ JJ TO VB IN NN CD . DT JJS NN VBZ VBG NNS IN PRP$ CD POS CC JJ CD POS TO VB VBN , IN DT VBZ WRB EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN , CC PRP VBP TO VB JJR NNS IN NN . NNP NN VBZ JJ . PRP VBZ RB DT NN , JJ NN , CC JJS NNS WP VBP PRP VBZ IN PRP CC RB IN PRP . 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NN WP VBD PRP$ NN IN CD CC VBD PRP$ JJ NN IN DT JJ NNS IN NNS TO VB DT VBG JJ NN NN VBD IN IN NNP , VBD IN NNP CD IN NNP NNP NNP NNPS IN NNP NNP . PRP VBD CD . DT NN VBD JJ NN , VBD DT JJ NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN IN NNP . DT NN IN NN CC JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD DT JJ CC VBG NN IN DT NNS CC NN IN NNS IN NNP . IN NNS , NNS TO NNS CC NNS PRP VBD , NNP NNP , WP VBD IN DT NN , VBN JJ NNS VBN TO VB DT NN IN DT NN , CC PRP VBD JJ NNS TO VB RP TO DT JJ NNS IN DT NN . PRP RB VBD JJ NNS IN JJ NN NNS CC NN IN DT NN CC NNS IN NNS CC JJ NN NN NNS WP VBD JJ . PRP RB VBD IN NNS IN NN NNS . 
RB WRB PRP VBD VBN TO VB JJ NNS MD VB VBG PRP$ NN IN VBG DT JJ NN NN , PRP VBP VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NN . DT JJ NN VBN JJ NN NNS IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN NN RB VBZ VBG IN NN . DT MD VB DT JJ NN IN NN IN NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN . VBG DT NNS IN DT NN , VBN IN NN , MD VB PRP VB RP DT NNS IN VBG : CC VBP PRP RB JJ TO NN . DT VBZ RB VB IN DT JJ NN . IN NN , NN RB VBD IN VBG NN MD VB JJ . NNP NNP VBZ VBN TO VB NNS IN JJ NN . DT JJ VBG NN IN JJ NN : JJ NN : VBZ DT NN IN NNS WDT VBP DT NN TO VB RB . PRP VBZ RB VB NNS WDT MD VB NN IN DT JJ NNS VBP IN . 
NNP VBZ CD CC VBZ RB TO VB DT NN . CC RB VBD IN NN NN , '' PRP VBD , VBG PRP$ NN . CC VBP PRP MD VB CD . '' IN NN NN IN DT NN , DT NN POS NN IN VBG DT NN NNS IN NN CD . IN DT NNS , VBG NN NN NN VBZ VBG JJ NN . NNP VBZ PRP VBZ PRP$ JJ CC NNS VBP RB CC , UH , VBZ VBG TO VB DT NN . CC VBP VBG TO VB PRP . PRP RB VBP RB VBN RB RB . '' RB . DT RBS JJ NN IN NN NN NN VBZ JJ NN IN PRP VBZ RB VBN IN NNP . PRP VBZ RB JJ IN JJR IN CD NN IN DT NNS , RB , IN PRP VBZ RB VB DT JJ NN . RB , NN VBZ DT NN IN NN . DT JJ , JJ NN VBZ RBR JJ , CC RB EX VBZ NN . DT JJ NNP IN NNP VBZ DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN , '' MD VB IN NN . '' NNP NN , DT JJ NN IN DT NNS NNS IN DT JJ NN IN NN IN JJ NNS . 
PRP VBP PRP DT NN JJR RB . PRP MD VB TO PRP$ NNS WP VBP VBN , PRP VBD DT JJ NN CC PRP VBZ VB RBR . '' NNP NNP , CD NNP NNP , NNP . PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN NNP CD . PRP VBD VBN NN VBZ RB JJ IN CD NN , CC PRP RB VBD NN IN CC IN . PRP$ JJ NN VBZ IN PRP VBD JJ IN DT NN CC VBD RB JJ . CC VB PRP VBZ PRP$ JJ NN , IN PRP VBD DT NN IN CD NNS . PRP VBP RB DT NNS VBP DT NN CC NN NN . PRP VBP VBN IN RB EX MD VB RBR JJ NN RB TO VB NNS VB IN DT NN NN IN DT NN VBZ JJ , CC PRP MD VB JJ . PRP VBZ RB DT RB JJ NN CC PRP VBP VB PRP . PRP VBP NNS MD VB JJ CC JJ NNS IN PRP MD VB JJ . PRP MD VB NNS WDT VBP MD VB JJ IN IN JJS DT NN IN NNS CC EX MD VB JJ NN . NNP RB VBZ IN IN JJS CD NNS . 
NN , VBG NN TO VB DT NN POS NN VBZ JJ . CC VBG DT NN DT JJ NN : NN VBN IN NN : VBZ RB VBG NNS IN DT JJ NN RB JJ . PRP VBP PRP IN PRP VBP DT NN IN NN IN PRP VBP PRP TO VB , CC PRP VBP RP TO VB DT NN . IN EX VBZ DT NN IN NN CC NN : IN PRP VBP PRP MD RB VB NNS : PRP VBP TO VB TO VB DT NN , CC NN NNS ( IN NN , RB VBZ ) PRP$ NN IN NN . WP , RB , VBZ DT NN IN DT NN IN NNS CC DT NN IN DT NN CC DT NN . PRP VBP RB VB DT JJ NN NNS , DT NNS IN NN . RB , PRP VBP PRP CC VB DT IN DT NN DT NN MD VB , EX VBZ DT VBG NN IN PRP MD VB . UH , NNS MD VB PRP$ NNP NNS TO VB NNS , CC MD RB DT JJ NNS RB VBP PRP$ JJ NNS . UH , EX MD VB DT NN IN JJ NNS , CC MD PRP RB VBP JJR NNS IN CD , CD CC CD NNS , DT VBN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN CC NN . 
RBR RB , NNP VBD PRP VBD DT NN IN NNP , DT RB VBN NN IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN TO VB NN . CC DT NN VBD NNP IN DT NN NN JJ NN IN NNS JJ NNS IN DT NN , VBG PRP$ NN . NNP , RB , VBZ RB VBG IN DT NN IN CD IN PRP$ JJ JJ NNS , VBD CD . IN NNP , IN CD NNS IN NN CC NNS IN NNS , DT NN VBD IN PRP MD RB RBR VB DT NN IN PRP RB VBD RB VBN IN JJ NNS . CC VB TO DT NN IN , IN NNS IN NN , NN CC NNS , PRP VBP VBN IN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBZ JJ NN NN IN NNP . CC DT NN VBZ RB VBG JJ JJ NNS , RB VBG TO VB DT JJ JJ NN . IN NNP NNP , NNP NNP CC CD JJ NNS VBP VBN PRP$ JJ JJ NN , NNP . PRP VBP TO VB DT NN NN IN VBG DT NN WDT VBZ JJ NNS RB , VBG PDT DT NN . DT NN VBZ VBG RB IN NNP CC NN : NNP VBZ VBN TO VB , IN DT NN VBZ RP TO $ CD CD IN DT NNS VBP VBN . 
NNS RB VBP RB VB DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNP CC NNP POS NNP IN NNP , DT NN IN DT JJ NN CC DT JJ NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP . DT JJ NN , PRP VBD , VBZ RB VB DT NNS IN DT NN NN VBP JJ , CC IN DT NN VBZ JJ . VBG NN NN IN NN IN DT NNS CC JJ IN DT NNS VBZ DT NN , '' PRP VBD . JJ NNS , RB , VBP RB VBN RP PRP$ NNS . RB , IN PRP$ NN IN NNS , PRP VBP EX VBZ DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNS CC NN IN NNP . NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' VBP RB JJ IN PRP VBP DT . '' RB , PRP VBD , DT NN IN NN IN NN NN IN DT JJ JJ NNS IN DT JJ JJ NNP NNP IN DT NN VBD RB JJ IN DT NN IN CD , WRB DT NNS IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP VBD RP DT NN NN . 
NNS VBP RB VBN VBN IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNPS . RB IN NNS IN WDT DT NN NN VBZ RB VBN , NNS IN DT NN VB RB JJ NNS , RB VBG TO JJ NN IN VBG DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS POS NN . VB NN NNS . VBG NN NNS RB IN DT NN NN VBZ DT JJ , JJ CC JJ NN . IN NNP , RB CD NN IN NNS IN CD VBD DT NNS IN CD NNS IN DT NN NN . IN NNP CC NNP , IN NN , JJR IN CD IN IN CD NNS VBD DT NNS . WDT VBZ DT NN IN NN NN NN VBZ IN DT JJ NNS VBP VBN VBN IN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP , NNS IN NNP , IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NNS . NNP VBZ VBN IN DT NN NNS MD VB RBS VBN IN IN NNS POS NNS . IN CD IN PRP$ JJ NNS DT NN IN NN , NNS VBD DT NN VBG NNS TO DT NN IN NNP IN PRP VBP NNS IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN , VBG NNS IN IN PRP VBP JJ CC JJ NNS TO NN NN NNS . IN DT NN , DT NNS MD VB NNP TO VB NNS WP VBD NN NNS . 
NNS CC NNS VBP RB VBN RB IN NNS . CC WRB PRP VBZ TO NNS TO VB DT NNS PRP VBP , DT NNS VBP JJ RB . EX VBP NNS IN NNS IN NNS WDT VBP NNS , DT JJ NNS VBN IN DT CD POS . IN NN IN NNS TO DT NNS VBZ DT NN , DT NNS RB VBP RB TO VB DT NNS CC VB DT NN . IN NNS , DT NN VBZ JJ . EX VBP RB RB CD NN JJ NNS , CC NN VBD VBN RB IN DT JJ CD NNS TO VB DT JJ NN , NNP . NNP NNS RB VBP RB VB DT NN , RB VB DT NN CC VB DT NNS . NNS VBP RB VBN JJ TO VB DT RBS JJ JJ NN , DT JJ NN . DT NN IN JJ NNS VBZ VBN VBN IN NN IN DT NN TO VB NNP , DT RB VBG JJ NN WDT VBZ RB RB JJ IN CD NN IN DT NNS WP NN PRP . 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBZ DT NNP IN PRP$ NN CC JJ NNS IN NN IN VBG CC VBG NNS IN JJ NNS . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP , VBZ JJ NNS . CC , WRB PRP VBP NNS IN CD IN DT RBS RB JJ NNS IN NN , PRP VBP TO JJ NNS . CC JJ VBZ DT NN : WRB MD NNS VB IN DT JJ NN CC NN IN PRP$ NN . DT NN , VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , CC NNP , VBZ CD IN DT JJ CC JJS NN NNS . NNP IN NNP NNP IN DT CD POS , PRP VBD JJR IN CD NNS RB VBN TO VB NNS CC RB CC VBD IN CD NNS . DT NN VBD IN DT NN NN NN NN VBD IN CD NN JJR IN NNS WP VBD RB VB NNS . IN IN CD WP VBD RB VBN , CD VBD IN NN NN VBN IN CD IN RB CD WP VBD NNS . 
IN DT NN VBZ RB VB TO DT NN , PRP VBZ RB JJ IN JJ NN TO VB NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP , NNP , CC DT NN IN NN CC NN . CC VB NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' VBP TO VB DT NN TO DT NN NN . CC JJ CD MD RB VB TO DT NN NN . '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD , '' VBP RB VB PRP VBZ NN IN DT . '' IN DT NN VBZ JJ CD , PRP VBZ IN DT NNS WRB , IN NN IN JJS , PRP MD VB NN NN CC PRP MD VB TO DT NN NNS CC RB VB NN . CC NNP NNP VBD JJ NNS IN NNS WP VBD NN , DT VBN TO JJ NNS IN VBG JJ NN , VBD RB VB DT NN IN VBG JJ CD CC VBG NN NN CC NN . 
NNP NNP POS NN NN NN VBZ TO VB DT NN . PRP VBZ NNS TO VB DT NNS PRP VBP IN VBG NN . NNP VBZ IN DT JJ CD NNS VBP VBN IN DT MD VB VBN : DT NN '' NNS MD VB VBN IN VBG JJ NN : WDT VBP NN NN CC NNS MD VB VBN . CC DT NNS IN NNP RB VBP IN DT NN WDT VBZ DT CD IN NNS . IN PRP MD RB VB DT JJ CC JJ NN IN PRP$ NN TO JJ NN CC NN IN DT NN IN NN , PRP MD VB JJ NN IN VBG DT RB RBR JJ NNS TO VB . JJ NN MD VB PRP JJ NNS , CC RB IN PRP VBP JJ PRP VBP RB VB IN DT NN IN PRP$ JJS NNS . JJ NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNS CC JJ NNP NNP , VBZ DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP POS NNP IN NNP . 
RBS DT NN MD VB JJ TO JJ NN RB , IN PRP VBZ JJ RB TO VB DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP CC NN IN NNP , DT NN WDT VBZ NNP . '' TO NNP , '' PRP VBD , FW NNS VBD RB VB PRP VBD JJ . '' NNS VBP DT RB VBG NN IN DT JJ NN , IN RB JJ , IN JJS IN DT JJ NNS VBN . NNS IN JJ NNS JJ NN VBD $ CD CD IN DT NNP NNPS , RB CD NN IN CD , VBG TO NNP , DT NN NN NN NN . TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN , NNP , DT JJ NN NN , RB VBD TO VB $ CD CD IN DT NN NN IN NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN NNP , NNP . NNP NNPS IN NNP NNP , NNP , WDT VBZ VBN CD JJ NNS , VBG NNP IN NNP CC NNP IN NN , RB VBZ DT JJ NN NN NN IN DT NN NN , IN NNP CC NNP . 
DT NN VBD DT NN . IN DT JJ NN VBG DT NN IN DT NN NNP CC PRP$ NN VBN IN DT NNS IN NN CC NN WDT VBD VBN VBN IN DT $ CD CD NN TO VB DT NN IN DT NNP CD NN , NNS RB VBD DT JJ NN IN NNS VBG NN IN DT JJ JJ NN . DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN NN '' VBN IN JJ NN IN NN , NN NNS , NN NN CC JJR . CC IN DT NN , DT NNS IN WRB DT NN VBD VBP VBN RP IN JJ NN : NNP NNP IN DT NN NN . DT NN , DT NNP NNP NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN IN DT VBG NN , DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT RBS JJ NN RB IN DT NNP NN : IN NNS IN NN WDT VBZ RB NNS CC NNS TO DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN CD NNS IN NN TO DT VBN NN POS JJ CD NNS . 
NNP NNP NNP , IN NN , VBZ VBN DT NN JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD . MD VB VBD IN PRP VBD TO VB IN DT JJR NN , '' PRP VBD , VBG NNP NNP NNP NNS , IN NN , IN PRP$ NN IN NNP NNP MD RB VB JJ NNS IN NNP NNP IN JJ NNS CC JJ NNS . CC , RB , NNP NNP VBZ NNP NNP IN DT NN TO VB NNP NNP POS NN NNS IN PRP$ NN IN DT PRP$ NNS . DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN DT NN IN VBG PRP$ NNS IN VBG TO NNP NNP : CC , IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN , TO NNP : RB IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN DT JJ CD POS , WRB NNP NNP NNP VBD PRP$ JJ NN . PRP VBD RB IN CD IN DT NN , VBD DT NNP IN NNP CC NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD VBN , VBG VBG NNS IN JJ IN DT NN POS CD NNS . 
NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN VBG DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NNP NNP NN VBG IN DT NN . VBN IN VBG CD TO CD NNS RBR JJ NNS TO DT NN IN RB JJ IN DT NN , PRP MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ RB , RB JJR IN JJ . '' WRB EX VBZ DT JJ NN , NN NNS JJ NN NNS VBN NNS , WDT VBP IN DT NN TO VB DT JJ NN . NNP VBZ IN NN TO VB DT JJ NN VBD NN , WDT VBZ NNS TO JJ NNS IN DT NN TO VB DT NN CC NN . IN DT CD NN NNS VBP VBG NN RB RB IN PRP VBP IN NN , VBG PRP IN DT JJ NN VBZ IN PRP VBP JJ IN VBN . IN NNS , NNS VBP VBN NN CC JJ NNS CC JJ PRP IN DT NN NN TO VB DT JJ JJ NN IN PRP VBD TO VB JJ CC JJ NN IN NNS CC JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . 
NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP IN IN DT VBG NN , DT NN JJ NNP IN VBN NN IN DT NN WDT MD VB NN IN JJ NNS IN NN VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP IN VBG PRP JJ IN DT NN . DT NN , WDT VBZ NN CC NN NN , VBD PRP VBD RB VBG IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . CC PRP VBD RB VB NNS TO VB NN . 
DT JJ NNS IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP VBP VBG DT JJR NN IN NN IN NNS , NNP NNP VBD . CC RB JJ NN RB VBZ IN NNS VBP TO VB PRP$ NN , '' PRP VBD . NNS WP RB VBP VBN DT NN NN CC NN VBP RB VBN IN PRP$ NNS TO VB DT JJ NN IN JJ JJ , IN NN VBZ RB VBN PRP$ NN IN VBG JJ NN NNS . NNP VBZ RB VBN IN NNS WP VBP VBG NNS IN DT NN NN . CC PRP VBP VBG DT NN NN , PRP VBZ PRP VBP DT NN RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC PRP VBP DT NN , PRP MD VB DT NN IN VBG . '' DT NNP POS NNP NNP VBD RB VBN RP TO VB DT NN IN VBG JJ NN NNS . DT NNS VBD RB VBN TO VB CD JJ NNS IN DT NN NNP NN CC DT NN DT JJ NN . 
IN PRP VBP IN DT NN IN NN , NNS IN NN MD VB IN JJ JJ NNS IN NN ( IN IN NNP ) CC NN ( IN IN NNP ) NN RB RB , VBP JJ JJR IN DT JJ NNS , CC VBP RB VBN TO VB DT NN IN NN NNS . IN NN , CD IN DT JJ NNS IN DT JJ NNS : IN PRP VBP RBR JJ TO VB NN NNS IN JJ NNS : MD VB RB JJ . NNP , CC WP MD VB JJR NN , VBZ IN IN NNS VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN , IN JJ NNS NNPS VBD NN TO VB . DT JJ VBZ DT NN IN DT NNS IN DT NN CC DT NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN NN WDT VBD NNS IN $ CD CD IN CD . RB IN VBG DT JJ NN IN NNS IN NN NN : WP RB VBP VBN IN RB CC VBP RB JJ NNS IN JJ NNS : DT NN NN NNS WDT VBD PRP . IN DT JJ NN , NNP VBD IN JJS $ CD CD DT NN IN JJ NNP NN , IN DT NN POS NNS CC PRP$ NNS VBN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS VBG NNS VBG NNP POS NN NN NN . DT NNP CC NNP NNP MD VB VBN NNP TO VB DT JJ NN NNS , CC RB PRP VBD DT NN . 
IN NNP , DT NN NN NN IN DT NN WP VBD VBN DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NN CC VB DT JJ VBG JJ NNS IN DT NN NN . IN NNP NNP , DT NNP RB RB JJ NNS IN NNS IN NN NN CC VB DT IN CD IN CD NN JJ . IN NNP , DT JJ NN VBZ PRP VBZ RB JJ IN CD NN IN JJ NNS VBP VBN DT JJ NNS . DT NN VBZ IN JJ WRB JJ JJ NNS VBP VBG JJ NNS , CC EX VBZ DT VBG NN IN JJ NNS IN NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ VBN VBN IN JJ NN . IN DT NNP NNP NNP , NN NNS CC NNS NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP VBZ RB VB NN NNS IN NNS CC JJ NNS WDT MD VB NN . CC NNS VBP , RB IN JJ NNS , IN JJR CC JJR NNS VBP VBN IN NN IN JJ NN CC NNS VBP VBN VBG NN NNS IN DT NN NN . 
NN NN NNS VBD IN RB CD NNS IN NN VBD VBN VBN JJ IN IN DT NNS VBN . RB , VBG IN CD NNS RB , RB DT CD NNS MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN CD NNP . NN NNS IN DT NN . CC DT WP VBP DT NN MD VB DT NN RB TO VB PRP CC VB PRP IN NNS , IN PRP MD VB JJ NNS TO DT NNP . DT NNP . RB VBZ IN DT NN RB VB VBN TO DT NN POS NNS . CC DT JJ NN NN , VBN RP IN DT JJ NN NN , VBZ TO VB JJ , CC DT NNS VBD PRP VBD RB JJ . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP WP VBZ JJ NN NNS , VBD DT NN VBD DT NN NNS IN JJ CC MD VB VBN JJ TO VB PRP VBN RBR CC VBD RB VB TO VB DT JJ NNS POS NNS IN NN . 
NNP NNP VBD DT NNS VBD JJ : DT NNS POS NN CC NNS IN PRP MD VB JJ CC DT NNP POS NNP NNP MD VB JJ , CC NN NN . IN DT VBZ JJ , PRP VBD , PRP MD VB IN DT NNS IN DT CD NNS IN NNS VBP JJ IN DT NN IN NNS VBP RB RB VBN RP . CC IN RB , PRP VBZ IN NNS VBP DT NNS CC VBP RB JJ IN NNS . RB RB , NNP NNP VBD , RB DT NN VBZ JJ . RB NN , IN NNS , VBZ RB DT NN TO VB IN . WP VBZ VBG , PRP VBD , VBZ DT NN IN NN NNS IN NN NN . NNP NN , NNS VBP JJR NN NN IN NNS , CC DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN JJR NNS . PRP VBD PRP VBD JJ IN NN , DT NN NNS RB VBP CC DT VBZ RB TO PRP$ NN VBZ JJ . DT NN IN NNS , VBN IN DT NN IN VBG DT NN , MD VB JJ . CC DT NNS POS NN CC DT NNP POS NNP NNP VBD DT NN , NNP NNP VBD . 
NNP NNP VBD NNP VBD TO VB DT NNS JJ TO NNS IN DT NN , WDT PRP VBD DT NN IN NNS RB . RB PRP VBD VBG DT JJ NN TO VB DT JJ NN IN NNS . CC VBN JJ NN , PRP VBD , DT NN VBD TO VB DT NNS RB IN DT JJ NN . NNP NNP VBD EX VBD DT NN TO VB DT NNS IN NNP WRB NNP VBD VBN IN NNP VBD IN JJS NNS VBG RP NNP MD VB TO NNP . CC DT NN VBZ RB VBG IN DT JJ NN IN NNP NNS VBP VBG TO NNP , WDT VBD NNS IN $ CD CD IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN , IN PRP VBD DT NNS NN TO VB NNS CC NNS VBP , PRP VBD . IN NN NN , NNP POS NNS VBD CD NNS , VBG IN $ CD . NN VBD RB CD NNS , TO $ CD . NNP NNP VBD DT NNP NNS IN JJ NNS VBD RB JJ IN DT NN IN DT JJR NN . CD NN VBZ RB JJ IN PRP MD CC MD RB VB JJ , '' PRP VBD . 
NNP NNP VBD IN PRP$ JJ NN DT NN JJ JJ NNS VBD IN DT CD POS : IN PRP$ JJ . PRP$ JJ NN VBD TO VB , CC PRP VBD , VB JJ . IN PRP$ JJ NN RB CD NNS RB , PRP VBD DT JJ NN PRP VBD NN , CC VBD CD NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN . CC VBD JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP , CD , DT NN IN NNP NNP . '' PRP VBD NNS MD VB RB . '' '' IN CD NN , PRP VBD VBN IN NNS . NNP PRP VBG RB RB . MD PRP VB DT JJ TO VB PRP$ RP . '' VBD VBG PRP JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBD NN WP VBD JJR IN PRP VBD TO VB PRP VB DT NNS . '' NNP NNP VBD NN IN DT VBG NN IN NNS VBP : PRP VBD DT NN . PRP VBD TO VB IN RB JJ NNS VBD NNS TO VB PRP TO DT VBG NN . CC IN DT NN IN WDT NNS VBP VBN TO VBG DT NN : NN NN , NN , RB DT NN IN DT JJ NN : PRP VBZ RB JJ IN JJ NNS VBP VBG NNS TO VB PRP VB RP WRB TO VB DT JJS IN PRP$ JJ NNS . 
DT NN NN CC DT NN IN NNS MD VB VBN IN DT NN RB RBR IN NN VBN IN DT JJ CD POS , CC RB VBD DT NN IN JJ NN NNS , IN IN DT JJ NNS . TO NN : IN PRP VBD DT NN NN , RB PRP VBD TO VB IN DT NNS PRP VBD VBN TO VB VBG CD TO CD NNS DT NN VBD , RB VBN , RB JJ IN NNS . DT VBD PRP VB RB JJR IN NN . JJR IN VB DT NN , DT NN NNS RB VBN NN CC NN NN TO VB DT NN WDT VBP JJ NN . IN DT , PRP VBP JJ . NNP CC NN NN IN JJ NNS , NNS CC DT JJ NNS CC NNS NNS RB RB JJR IN CD NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS : DT CD POS VBD DT NN IN NNP NNP CC JJ NNS IN NNP , VBD IN IN NN , CC CD NN JJ JJ . WRB PRP VBZ TO VB CC NN NN , DT JJ NNS CC NN NNS : WP DT NNS VBP POS NNS '' : MD RB VB JJS IN DT . ( NNP VBZ NNS IN JJR IN DT NN IN DT NN NN . ) 
DT JJ NNS VBD IN IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD VBN JJ TO VB NNS CC NNS IN PRP$ NN VBG IN VBN NNS , DT NN WDT VBD RP VBD TO VB NN IN JJ CC JJ NNS IN JJ . IN DT NN , VBD NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NN , PRP VBD IN NNS VBD VBG NN CD IN JJ NNS CC NN CD IN NNS IN JJ JJ NN '' IN DT NN IN JJ NN . DT NNS VBD TO VB RB VBN , RB VBD , '' PRP VBD , VBG IN NNS MD RB VB VBG : CD RB VB IN PRP . PRP VBZ JJ . VB PRP IN PRP$ JJ JJ NN . '' '' 
NNP NNP VBD IN NN JJ NNS MD VB DT NN IN JJ NNS . NN MD RB VB DT NN NN , '' PRP VBD . '' NN VBZ DT JJ NN : RB IN PRP VBZ RB VB WRB TO VB PRP . IN PRP VBP PRP$ NNS VBP RB JJ CC PRP RB VBZ $ CD TO VB PRP RB , RB PRP MD VB PRP . NNS MD VB IN CC VB PRP MD VB RB JJ IN PRP VBZ JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . '' WP VBZ JJ NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP IN IN DT VBG NN , DT NN IN NNS IN NNP IN NN NN VBD RB TO DT JJ NNP . NN . PRP VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NNS IN NNS , RB NNS . 
DT JJ NN VBD CD NNS WP VBD VBN NNS CC WP VBD VBG NN RB CC DT NN . PRP VBD VBN RB IN NNP CD , WRB NNS VBD IN IN RB CD NNS DT NN VBD DT NN IN NN CC NNS IN DT NN CC VBD RB VB NN NN . NNS IN DT NN WP VBD NN RB RB VBN JJR NNS IN NN NN CC NN NN . CC DT NNS VBD DT NNS VBD RB JJ IN PRP MD VB VBN IN IN NN . DT NNS IN NN RB VBD IN JJR NN NNS . NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP , VBD IN NNS VBD IN DT NNS IN NN NN IN JJR NNS WP VBP NN RB RB , CC VBD DT NNS VBD IN PRP MD RB VB VBN TO VB JJ NN IN JJR NNS . NNP NNP VBD IN WRB DT NNS VBD IN DT CD POS DT NN VBD IN NNS TO VB NNS TO VB NNS IN DT NNS IN DT NN NN IN VBG NN NN . DT NNP POS NNP NNP , PRP VBD , VBD VBN TO VB DT NN . 
IN NNP , DT NN MD VB DT NN IN DT NN IN WDT DT NN VBZ NN TO DT NN TO VB JJ NN NNS , IN NNS CC NNS . DT NNS MD VB IN NN IN JJ NNS IN NN NNS CC VBG JJ IN DT NNS VBP JJ IN PRP . DT NN MD VB IN JJ NNS , DT NNS VBD . IN JJ DT NNS VBD NNS JJ NNS IN NN NN VBZ CC NNP , CC RBR RB PRP VBP VBN VBG RP NNP NNP . RB RB , CD NNS VBP VBN DT NNS , VBD NNP NNP IN NNP . JJ NNS VBP RB JJ NNS CC JJ , VBG NNP , NNP CC NNP , MD VB JJ NNS . NNP NNP IN NNP POS NNP NNP NNP VBD RB RB IN DT NN , PRP VBD . CC PRP$ NN VBD RP IN RB NN . DT VBD WRB PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NNS . NNP NNP , WP VBD RB VBN IN DT NN CC VBD NN IN PRP , VBD RP TO DT NN PRP VBD RB VB TO VB DT NN CC VB DT JJ NNS IN NN . WRB PRP VBD DT NN POS NN , PRP VBD VBN . 
CD JJ NN NNS VBP CC CD IN NNP NNP MD RB VB NN . NNP NNP VBD PRP MD VB DT NN POS JJ NN . NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS CC JJ NNS WP VBP DT NNP JJ , VBG TO VB RB JJ NNS RB RB IN JJ . NNP NN VBZ DT NN POS JJ NN IN NN NNS , IN RB CD DT NN . CC VBP RB VB NN VBZ VBG TO VB DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC DT NN IN JJ NNP NN VBZ VBG TO DT NNS , VBG NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP , WP VBP DT NNS MD VB NN NN CC VBP NN TO VB NNS JJ RB . IN DT NNS , FW NNS VBP DT VBZ JJ IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ JJ NN NN IN VBG CC VBG JJ NNS IN NN NN VBD CD NN POS NNS IN DT NN RB . DT NN , NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP , VBZ IN IN DT NN , VBN IN JJ NNP NN , MD VB NN NN , IN PRP MD VB NNS JJ JJR NNS JJ . PRP VBD RB VB IN DT NN VBZ NN TO VB NNS JJ JJR . 
DT NNS VBP RB VB DT NNS IN NN IN JJ NN , IN PRP VBZ VB RP NN NN CC VBZ JJR NN , CC PRP VBP JJ IN VBG DT NNS TO JJ JJ NNS . IN NN , DT JJ NN MD VB VB JJR NNS IN VBG JJ NNS IN VBG IN PRP$ NNS VBP JJ . VBZ EX DT NN IN VBG WP VBZ JJ NN IN VBG NN NN CC VBZ EX DT JJ NN IN VBG NN IN NNS WP VBP RB VBN TO VB JJ . JJ NN VBZ RB JJR IN DT NN . NNS IN DT JJ NN NN VB JJR CC JJR NNS : DT , IN NNS , MD VB RB JJ IN RB PRP$ NNS VBP JJ , JJ TO VB IN PRP$ NNS . NNP IN JJ NN RB VB JJ NNS , IN VBG TO VB RB , CC RB , IN IN NN CD , PRP$ NNS VB RB . MD DT NN IN DT JJ NNS WDT VBP WRB JJ CC WRB JJ NNS VBP NN TO JJR NNS . 
JJ NNS VBP IN IN NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS IN NN NN NN MD VB DT JJ NN . CC VBP RB VB PRP MD VB RP DT NN IN DT NN NN RB IN IN DT CD NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNS CC NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP . NNP NNP CC NNS VBP RP IN DT VBN NN IN NN NN CC JJ NNS IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBD JJ . JJ NNS RB VBP IN VBG NNS IN CD TO CD NNS , TO VB JJ NNS IN NN , VBZ RB JJ IN JJS NNS . CC DT NN VBZ , NN RB VBZ RB RB IN NN TO VB JJ NNS CC JJ NN . RB , DT NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP NN VBZ VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NNS IN NN NN NN . PRP VBZ JJ IN IN DT NNS RB , JJ NNS MD VB VBG NNS IN NN CC NN WDT VBP VBN TO DT NN POS NN CC JJ NNS . DT NNS MD VB IN JJR NNS , CC DT MD VB NNS RB IN NN IN JJ NNS . 
NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN IN NN , NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP POS NN NN , JJ NNP IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBD IN PRP IN DT NN IN NN CC NN IN DT NNS IN PRP$ NN NN NN . VBZ DT NN , PRP VBP DT NN RB , '' NNP NNP NNP , CD , DT NN , VBD WRB VBN WRB PRP VBD VBN RP TO VB PRP$ NNS IN PRP$ NN NN . CC VBP TO VB DT JJR NN CC DT JJR NNP IN PRP$ NNS , CC PRP VBP NNP NNP MD VB . '' NNP NNP VBD CD IN CD JJ JJ NNS WP VBP VBN IN DT JJ NN TO VB NNS . DT NN VBD DT JJ JJ NN NN IN CD NNS . DT JJ NN NN NN VBD VBN JJ NN IN NNP NNP VBD TO VBG RP DT NN IN IN CD CC CD , IN DT DT NN IN JJ NNS IN NN NNS , CD IN PRP$ JJ NNS VBD PRP$ JJ NNS , CC IN RB CD JJ NNS VBD RB VBN VBN IN VBG NNS . 
RBR RB , NNP VBD PRP VBD DT NN IN NNP , DT RB VBN NN IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN TO VB NN . CC DT NN VBD NNP IN DT NN NN JJ NN IN NNS JJ NNS IN DT NN , VBG PRP$ NN . NNP , RB , VBZ RB VBG IN DT NN IN CD IN PRP$ JJ JJ NNS , VBD CD . IN NNP , IN CD NNS IN NN CC NNS IN NNS , DT NN VBD IN PRP MD RB RBR VB DT NN IN PRP RB VBD RB VBN IN JJ NNS . CC VB TO DT NN IN , IN NNS IN NN , NN CC NNS , PRP VBP VBN IN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBZ JJ NN NN IN NNP . CC DT NN VBZ RB VBG JJ JJ NNS , RB VBG TO VB DT JJ JJ NN . IN NNP NNP , NNP NNP CC CD JJ NNS VBP VBN PRP$ JJ JJ NN , NNP . PRP VBP TO VB DT NN NN IN VBG DT NN WDT VBZ JJ NNS RB , VBG PDT DT NN . DT NN VBZ VBG RB IN NNP CC NN : NNP VBZ VBN TO VB , IN DT NN VBZ RP TO $ CD CD IN DT NNS VBP VBN . 
EX VBZ DT NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ VBG TO VB CD JJ NN IN VBG NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP . IN DT NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN JJ NN IN NN NN '' MD VB NN NNS IN DT NNP NN VBD VBN . CC NNP NNP VBD IN JJ NN IN JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN . '' DT NN NN POS NN VBZ JJR IN PRP$ NN POS JJ CD , PRP VBD . CC VBP JJ IN NNS , CC JJS VBP RB NN NNS , VBG DT NNS JJ TO VB RB PRP VBP . NNP NNS VBP RB RB JJ '' NNS , VBG IN DT NN CC DT JJ WP VBZ PRP IN DT NN MD VB NN NNS , WP MD IN NN VBP DT NNP NNPS NNP IN NNP . IN PRP VBP RB VBG IN NNS TO VB RP , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN . 
CC WP IN NNS RB IN DT NN IN JJ NN VBD RB RB JJ IN VBG NN , NN CC NN . WP IN PRP VBD VB RBR RB TO NNS CC PRP$ JJ : TO DT JJ NN IN DT NN CC DT RB JJ NN IN NN WDT VBZ RB VBN RP IN DT NN RB JJ CC JJ . WP IN PRP VBD VBG IN NN IN DT NN IN VBG DT NN IN DT NN CC RB JJ NN IN JJ JJ NN CC DT JJ CC RB VBG NNS VBN IN NNS CC NNS . IN DT , JJR CC JJR NNS VBP TO VB VBN TO VB JJ NNS : NN IN DT NNS VBP PRP VBP VBN PRP : IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . CC NNS MD RB VB PRP IN PRP VBP DT JJS JJ NN NN , IN IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN ( CC VB DT NN NN ) VBN IN DT JJ NN , PRP MD VB DT JJR CC PRP VBP DT JJ JJ NN IN VBG JJR . EX VBZ NN TO VB VBD , RB , IN DT JJ JJ NN . 
IN PRP VBP CC VBP DT NN IN NNS , PRP VBP VBG PRP , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP VBD NNS RB MD VB JJ IN DT NN . VBP RB VB VBG RP NN , '' PRP VBD . RB , PRP VBD NNS TO VB IN PRP VBD TO VB , DT NN DT NN VBZ RB RBR VBG NN . DT NN POS JJ NN , NNP NNP NNP . NNP , IN NNP POS NNP , VBD PRP RB NN IN NN IN CD WRB DT NN NN RB RB IN DT NN IN NNP NNP TO NNP IN PRP VBD DT NN . PRP RB VBD . NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS VBD TO VB WRB JJ NN RB VBD . IN RB , DT NN VBD DT CC RB IN IN NN NNS IN NNS CC NNS VBD VBN RB RB IN JJ NNS WP VBD RB VB NN TO VB RB JJ . JJ NNS VBP RB VBG JJ , CC PRP RB VBP , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN CC JJ NN IN NNP , VBZ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP . '' 
RB , PRP VBZ IN WRB JJ JJ DT WP VBP DT JJ RB VBP TO VB RP . ( DT NN NN IN DT NNP JJ VBD IN NNP VBD RB CD NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN . ) NNP VBZ DT NNS IN CD NNS IN DT NNP NN WP VBP JJ CC JJ . PRP VBD DT NN IN DT RB JJ NN NN CC DT NN IN VBG NN IN DT JJ NN . PRP VBD VBG : PRP VBD VBG RB . IN CD NNS , PRP VBP DT NN JJ . CC NN VBD DT JJ TO JJ JJ NN PRP VBP IN ( IN CD VBD JJR IN CD NNS , CD NN IN PRP$ NN NN ) . NNP NNS JJ NN TO VB WRB VBG NN RP VBZ RB JJ . ( DT NN JJ NN IN DT NN POS NN '' JJ NNS PRP$ RB . ) CD NNS VBP JJR JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . PRP$ NNS VBP JJ CC PRP$ NNS VBP JJR : IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN IN NN , CD NN VBZ , PRP RB VBP NNS JJ NN '' RB JJ IN DT NN DT JJ NN NNS TO VB . NNS IN NNS CC IN JJ NNS VBP IN NN MD VB IN RB JJ IN CD NN IN JJ NN . IN CD NN IN JJ NNS , CD NN IN DT IN CD JJ NN NNS VBD JJ , VBN IN CD NN IN DT IN JJ NNS IN JJ NN : CC PRP VBD RB JJ VB WP DT JJ NNS VBD DT NNS . 
DT NN VBD VBN JJ IN NN . NNS VBD NNS IN VBG DT NNS POS NN NNS CC RB , IN NN , VBD DT NN IN VBG JJ NNS . CC , PRP VBD , NNS VBD RB VB IN DT NN IN NNS WP$ NNS RBR RB VBD DT JJ NN , VBD WRB PRP$ JJ NNS VBN CC VBN DT NN NNS . IN NN NN NNS , DT NN VBD JJ . RB , NNS VBP VBN NNS VBG TO VB JJ NNS IN VBG NNS JJ NNS CC JJ NN NNS , IN RB JJ NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NNS NN IN NNP NNP NNP . DT JJS NNS IN RB VBP IN DT JJ NN IN NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP , NNP , WP VBD NN NNS TO NNS IN JJ NNS CC VBD DT JJ NNS IN NNS TO VB DT JJ NNS . PRP$ JJ NN , RB CD NNS RB , VBD IN DT CD NNS WP VBD DT NNS RB RB VBD NNS . JJ NN , PRP VBD DT NN , IN DT NN IN CD NNS WP VBD NN NN NNS . CD RB RB VBD DT NNS IN NNS : PRP$ NN NN NNS VBD JJ . IN CD NNS , NN NN NNS VBD VBN , DT NN IN DT NN NNS VBD RB RB VBG . CC IN CD , NNS VBD VBN . 
DT NNP NNP CD 
NNP NNP VBZ JJ IN PRP$ . CC PRP VBD , '' IN DT JJ CD NNS WP VBD DT NN CC VBD RB VB DT NN . '' 
CC EX VBZ NN JJ NNS CC PRP$ NNS MD VB IN . VB POS VB PRP VBP DT NN NN CC PRP VBP VBG TO VB IN DT JJ NN MD VB IN DT NN CC VB NN IN DT VBG NN . PRP MD VB CD NNS IN NNS RB . DT JJ NN MD VB RB JJ CC DT NN MD VB IN IN DT NN . CC DT JJ NN MD VB RB JJ , IN DT NN VBZ VBN . NNP NN VBZ JJR . RB , IN PRP VBP VBG IN , MD PRP VB VB . DT NN VBZ RB . MD PRP VB PRP$ MD . UH . VB PRP RB . IN DT NNS IN NN VBP RB JJ . DT NN NNP : NNP NNP 
DT JJ NN VBD IN NNP WRB NNP NNP VBD IN NNS IN JJ NN IN NNP NNPS , DT JJ NN WDT VBZ NNS , NN CC NNS TO JJ NNS . IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBD NNS CC NNS IN JJ JJ NN NNS RB RB IN NN VBZ TO DT NN IN DT NN . CD NN WP VBD DT NN : DT NN IN NN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP : VBD IN DT NN TO VB NN NNS . WDT VBD JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC DT JJ CC NNS VBP TO VB DT NN IN NNS . '' NN RB IN DT NN , WP VBD IN NN IN DT NN NN NN IN NNP , VBD TO VB RP IN NN IN DT NN POS NNS . NNS VBD TO VB NN NNS . NNP NNP VBD VBG IN NN PRP VBD , CC DT NN VBN NN . NN IN PRP$ NN VBD IN NNP VBD DT NN JJ IN VBN JJ NN . NNP VBD TO VB PRP VB WP PRP VBD : IN DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP POS NN PRP VBD RB NNS , NNS , NN NNS . 
DT NN VBZ CD NNP NNP NNS , NN IN WP VBD VBN IN NN NN IN DT JJ JJ NN . DT NNS VBP VBN DT NN IN NN , NN CC NN IN PRP$ NNS CC NNS . DT NNP NNP NNP VBD DT NN POS NNS MD VB VBN IN DT JJ JJ NNS . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP POS NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD DT NNP NN VBZ RB VB DT NN IN DT NNS . '' NN VBZ DT NN WDT VBD RB VB DT NN IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . CC VBP JJ PRP MD VB RBR IN JJ NNS VBG RB . '' NNP NNP VBZ RB VBG TO VB NNS IN DT JJ NN IN RB JJ NN NN NNS IN NNS IN NN CD IN DT NNP NNP CC IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP NNS . IN DT JJ NN , DT NNP NN VBZ VBN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNS IN JJ NNS , NN IN DT NNP NNP NN NN NN , WDT VBP RB TO VB VBN . CC VBP VBG TO VB RB JJ IN DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP IN NNP , DT NN IN CD IN NNP , DT NN NN NN . VBZ RB NN PRP VBP VBG PRP IN JJ NN TO VB JJ NNS . EX VBZ NN IN RB PRP VBP VBG CC VBG . PRP MD RB VB PRP VBP DT RB RP DT NN CC PRP RB VBP RB VBN RP IN DT JJ NNS . '' 
NNP NNP VBZ DT NN IN NNS POS NN IN JJR NN . 
NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN CC JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD DT NNP NN VBD JJ NN IN DT NN . CC NNS VBP RB VB DT NN IN NNS WP$ NNS MD VB VBN CC VBP RB , '' PRP VBD . IN PRP$ NN '' '' VBN JJ NN , PRP VBD IN IN JJ NNS DT VBN NN NNS VBD RB RB JJ . NN NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS VBN IN JJ , JJ NNS , RB NNS , NNP NNP VBD . CC NNS VBP JJ NN IN NN , NN , NN CC NNS IN VBG NNS , RB TO VB NN NNS CC JJ NNS , IN DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NN VBZ DT NN , PRP VBD . IN CD NN IN DT JJ NN NNS VBP IN JJ NNS , PRP VBD . VB DT NN VBZ JJ CD CC CD NNS IN DT NN VBD RB VBN , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' VBP WRB JJ NN NNS , WP JJ NNS TO NNS CC TO DT JJ NN MD VB VBN VBN . '' 
NNS VBN IN NNS JJ NN NNS VBP RBR JJ TO VB JJ NN NNS CC NN NNS , NNS VBP NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . CC , JJ NNS VBD , DT NNS VBP RB VB DT JJ NN IN IN DT JJ NNS VBP IN DT NN NNS CC IN PRP VBP JJ NNS POS JJ NNS . DT JJ NN VBD IN JJ NNS : CC RB NNS , NNS CC JJ NNS : VBD IN NNS IN IN JJ NN . NNS IN DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP VBD JJ NNS IN CD NNS VBN IN NN NNS WDT VBD DT NNS CC VBN PRP TO DT NNS IN CD NNS IN DT JJ NN , IN VBN IN NN NNS . DT NNS VBD IN CD NN IN NN NNS VBP IN NN NNS VBD JJR IN CD NNS CD NNS . DT VBD NNS WDT VBD TO NN , VBG IN JJ NN VBD RB DT NN IN DT JJ NNS . 
IN NNP , DT NNP NNP IN NNPS VBN JJ NNS IN VBG NN IN NNP CD NNS IN DT NN NNP IN NNP NNP . CC VBD DT NNS , IN PRP$ NN VBD VBN IN WRB NNS CC NNS VBP IN NNS , DT NN VBZ IN VBG NN , IN DT VBZ WRB NNS VBZ VBN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNPS IN NNP NNP , NNP , CC DT NN IN DT NNS . NNS VBP TO VB IN IN PRP VBD VBG DT NN , PRP VBD JJ IN DT , RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NN VBD TO VB NNS TO VB IN VBG NN NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN NN IN VBG NNS . '' DT NNS NN VBZ IN CD NN IN NNS IN NNS RB VBP NN , VBN IN NN NN JJR IN 80 . DT NNS CC JJ NN NN VB DT NN IN NN NN CC NN , CC DT NN IN DT CD NNS MD VB RB JJ . 
IN NNS , PRP VBZ VBN DT JJ NN : RB DT JJ NNS VBN IN NNS MD VB VBN TO DT NN NN . RB RB VBP NNS RB VB NN CC JJR NN IN NNS IN NN IN NN NNS , CC DT NNS RB VBP IN PRP MD VB TO VB CC VB DT JJ NN IN NNS , VBG NNP POS NN , JJ NN , NN NNS , DT NNS IN NN , JJ NN CC NN . DT JJ CD CD NNPS VBP NNS . IN JJ NN NNS VBN JJ NN , NNS JJR VBP JJ TO VB VBG DT NNS , CC JJ WP RB VB PRP VBP JJ TO VB PRP$ NNS VBN . IN NNP CD , DT NNP NNPS IN NNP , IN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD RB VBG DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN IN NNS IN JJ TO JJ NN IN NN NN . DT NNS VBD VBN IN JJ NNS VBG JJR IN CD NNS . 
IN CD , DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBD NNS TO JJ JJ NNS VBG PRP IN PRP MD VB TO VB DT NNP NNP NNP , CC NNP , NN CC VB DT NN IN DT NN . IN DT NN MD RB VB IN DT NNS VBD VBN PDT DT NN , JJ IN JJ NNS VBP PRP VBP DT NN CC NN MD VB JJ . CC IN DT NNP . IN JJ NN MD VB RB $ CD TO $ CD CD CC VB CD TO CD NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBD PRP VBD VBG TO VB TO DT NNP CC NNP NNP TO VB DT RB JJ NN IN VBG NNS IN JJ NN NNS . PRP$ NN , VBN NN NN , VBZ TO VB PDT DT NN POS NN IN NN IN DT NN POS NN . RB DT NN IN NN MD VB JJ CC JJ NNS TO VB VB DT NN JJR NN . 
IN NN NNS VBP VBN VBG RB IN CD , DT NN VBZ VBN VBN IN NNS , CC NNS VBP JJS IN VBN , RB JJ NNS . NNP VBP DT NN IN JJ NN TO VB NNS IN NN , IN DT NN IN JJR NN TO NN : VBG DT JJ NNP NNS : CC NN . RB , IN JJ CC JJ NNS , NNS VBD IN DT CD POS , RB IN NN TO DT CD NN NN , WDT VBD NN NNS IN NNS WP VBP PRP$ NNS TO NN . IN DT NN NN VBN IN DT NNP NNP , JJ NNS VBD RBR JJ TO VB PRP$ NNS IN JJ NNS . NNP , CD , VBD NN VBD DT NN IN PRP$ NN TO VB DT NN . DT JJ NN NN NN , PRP VBZ IN DT NN NN , DT NN IN PRP VBD VBD RB VB RB TO VB DT NN . IN JJ NNS IN DT NN , NNP VBD VBN NNS IN WP PRP VBD VBG . CD RB VBD PRP MD RB , RB VBP DT NN , '' PRP VBD . NN RB MD VB PRP . PRP VBP JJ IN NNS IN NN CC NN , CC IN PRP VBZ PRP$ JJ NN , PRP MD VB NN . CC PRP VBZ PRP$ JJ NN . '' 
NNP NNP VBD IN NNS VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN , VBG DT NNS RB CC VBG PRP IN DT JJ NN . CC VBP TO VB PRP IN DT NN WDT VBZ RB JJ IN DT JJ NN TO PRP IN JJ , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP : NN 
NNP NNS VBD DT NN . NNS , VBN JJ NNS IN NNS IN NN NNS , VBD VBN IN NN NN IN PRP RB VBP JJ NNS . NNS IN NNS , RB , VBD JJ . DT VBD IN NNS WP VBD NN NN CC VB NN JJR JJ CC RBR RB IN DT WP VBD RB . CC JJ JJ NNS , CD VBG CD NNS , VBD TO VB DT NN IN NN IN JJ NNS CC NNS . DT NN IN DT NNS VBD IN PRP VBD JJ : DT NNS VBP PRP$ NNS CC VBD RB VBN . PRP MD VB IN DT WP VBD JJ NNS VBD TO VB JJ IN DT JJ NN IN DT WP VBD RB , CC IN DT NN MD VB VBN NN POS NNS IN PRP$ NN NN NN . IN VBG DT JJS NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN NN , '' VBD JJ NNS CC JJ NN . '' CC , PRP VBD , NNP VBD RB JJ NNS . '' 
IN RB , NNP NNP VBZ VBN NN IN DT NN IN DT NNS CC NNS IN DT JJ NN VBZ TO NNS . PRP$ NN NN IN NNP NNP , NNP , VBZ CC , PRP VBD . DT VBG NN CC NN IN NN NNS VBZ NNP NNP , DT RB VBN NN VBN IN NNP , NNP , WDT VBD NN JJ NN IN $ CD CD . NNP CC PRP$ NNS VBP DT NNS IN NNS IN JJ NN NNS CC NNS WDT VBP NN NNS IN NNS , RB VB PRP TO JJ NNS . NNP CC PRP$ NNS : DT JJ NNS VBP NNP , NNP NNP CC DT JJ NN , NNP NNP : RB VBP DT NNP . IN NN TO PRP$ NN IN NN IN RB CD CD NNS WP VBP NNS IN NNP JJ NNS , RB RB IN JJ JJ NN NNS VBN IN DT NNP NNPS . DT NNP , WDT VBZ DT NN NNP , VBZ VBG DT NN WRB DT NN VBZ JJ NN . IN NNS POS NNS , JJ NN VBZ NN IN PRP$ NN NNS , NNS IN NN CC JJ NNS . DT NNP NN VBZ IN NNS WDT NNS IN NNP NN IN VBG JJ NNS . 
RB NNS IN NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNP NNP , VBP DT NN IN NNP IN JJ , RB VBN NNS . CD IN PRP$ NNS , DT JJ JJ NN IN NNP NNP , WP VBD NN IN NN NNS , VBD IN JJ NNP NNS IN DT JJ CD NNS VBD VBN DT IN DT NN PRP VBD IN JJ NN NN CC NN IN JJ NN . PRP MD RB VB RB , CC PRP MD VB CD NNS RB IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . MD VBP VBN RB DT NNS . '' NNP NNP VBZ IN NNP MD VB RBR RB VBN . CC VBP VBN IN PRP VBZ DT NN NN IN VBG IN DT NNS IN VBG , '' PRP VBD . NNS VBP NNS IN NNS IN NN , CC PRP VBZ JJ IN PRP VBP NNS . DT JJ NN VBZ IN DT NNS VBP VBG VBN IN DT NNP . '' IN DT NN , DT NNS VBP . 
JJ IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBZ IN NN NNS NN WRB NNS VBP VBG NN . IN RB , EX VBZ RB VBN IN NN IN DT NN TO VB NNS JJ RB PRP VBP VBN NN , RB VBG DT JJR NN IN DT NN POS JJ NN NN CC VBG DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS , NN . RB , NNS VBP VBG NN IN DT NN TO VBG DT JJ NN NN IN VBZ RB , VBG NNS IN NNS IN DT NN WDT MD VB JJ NNS IN NN NNS . NNP IN NNP . IN NN , NNS VBP , JJ NN RB VBZ RB VB IN NN IN DT NN . CC , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , EX VBZ JJ NN TO VB JJ IN DT NNS . PDT DT JJ NN NNS TO DT NN IN NN VBZ DT JJ NN VBG IN RB JJ CC RB JJ IN NNS IN NN CC NNS WDT VBP VBN TO PRP IN JJ NNS CC DT VBD DT NN TO VB CC VB . 
DT NN NNS VBD PRP VBD RB VB JJ NN CC NNS TO VB IN PDT DT JJ NNS . NNS IN NNS POS NNS VBP VBN JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS CC NN , VBD VB DT JJ JJ NN CC DT JJ NN , CC VBD DT IN DT JJ JJ NN NNS . DT NN VBZ RB VBN DT NN IN VBG JJ NNS . CC NNS IN DT NN RB VBP PRP VBP JJ TO VB JJ NNS IN PRP VBP VBG VBN . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NN , NNP NNP , VBN JJ NN , VBG IN NNS VBD VBN NN NNS CC RB VBD PRP IN DT NN IN DT NN NN , VBG PRP$ NN IN NN NN . CC JJ NN VBZ TO VB IN DT NN IN NN VBZ RB VB TO JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN . NNS VBD DT NNP NN , NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . 
CC , DT NN , WRB MD DT JJ NN VB VBN TO DT NN IN WP MD VB VBN . '' VBP VBN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP . NN IN WP DT VBZ RB VBZ NN . PRP VBP PRP VBP RB JJ IN IN DT NN NN NN . VBG WP TO VB , VB WP DT NN NNS VBP CC VBG WRB TO VB CC WRB TO VB : PRP VBP RB RB RB . '' PRP CC NNS VBP IN JJ NNS RB VBP PRP$ NN NN CC VBP VBN NNS IN WP NN MD VB TO VB PRP . '' VBD DT NN IN NN VBZ JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN NN NN CC NN IN DT NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP . IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBD , JJ NNS POS VBN NNS IN EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN . '' DT NN , PRP VBD , '' NN . '' 
IN PRP VBP RB IN DT NNP , PRP MD VB IN PRP VBP DT NNS PRP VBP TO VB , '' VBD NNP NNP , VBG NN IN NNP IN DT NNP , DT NN IN CD JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNPS , NNP CC NNP . '' IN PRP VBP WP PRP VBP VBG , CC DT NNS CC NNS PRP VBP VBN NN IN DT NN , VBG JJ NN , VBZ JJ , JJ CC JJ . NNP . CC NNP . MD VB PRP$ NNS RP . '' DT JJ NNP . NN NN VBD DT JJ NN POS NNS VBP DT JJS NN JJ TO VB NNS TO NNS IN VBG JJ NNS . '' DT NNS MD VB TO VB VBN , PRP VBD . '' NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP , VBD DT NNP . VBD VBG VBG PRP$ NNS . CC VBP RB JJ IN PRP CC RB VBG IN DT NN TO VB IN DT NN VBZ IN PRP VBZ TO VB VBN , '' PRP VBD . 
DT NN : VBG NNS VBG JJ NNS : VBZ VBN RP RB . IN CD TO CD , NNP VBG IN NNS IN NN NN NNS VBD IN CD NN , IN NN . CC EX VBD RB DT NN IN JJ NNS . EX VBZ VBG NN IN DT NN TO VB CC VB MD RB VB NNS . DT NN IN NNP NNP , NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD IN NNS IN NNS WRB NN VBD JJS IN CD TO CD VBD DT IN DT JJS NNS , IN NNS IN VBG JJ NNS , CC VBD DT JJS NNS IN NN NNS . NN IN NN NN VBZ DT NN JJ NN IN JJ NNS VBN IN NNP POS NNS CC NNS . VBN IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ JJ NN , DT NNS VBP NN NN WDT VBZ JJ NN TO NNS . CD NN IN DT NN CC NN NN VBP VBG IN JJ NNS WDT VBP RB VBG NNS IN JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
NNP NNP VBZ DT NNP . NN PRP . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN PRP MD VB JJ TO VB JJ NN NNS RB JJ NNS VBD DT NNS . IN NN NN , DT NN VBZ VBN RB CC RB , JJ IN NN , RB CD NN DT NN . IN NN , NNP NNP VBD , DT NN RB VBD IN DT CD POS , JJ IN NN VBD VBN . CC PRP VBZ NNS TO VB NNS IN NN NNS . NNS TO VB NN NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN IN NN NN VBZ VBN VBG CC VBG IN DT NNS . NNP NNP VBD PRP MD VB DT NN TO VB RP NN VBG IN JJ IN IN NNS IN NN . IN RB , PRP VBD , JJ NN MD VB DT JJ NN TO VB DT NNS . NNP NNP VBD IN IN NN , IN JJS , DT NN VBD VBG NNS RB RB IN DT NN IN JJ NN CC JJ NN VBD VBN TO DT CD NN NN IN DT NN NN IN DT JJ CD POS . 
RB NNP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNP . 
IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNS , WDT IN NN CC DT JJ JJ NN MD VB $ CD IN DT NN . PRP VBZ DT RB JJ CC JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD VB DT NN JJR NNS . '' 
DT NNS VBP TO VBG NN WDT NN TO NNS POS JJ NNS MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS , DT NN VBN IN JJ NNS CC NNS CC CD WDT VBZ RB RB VBN TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN . IN DT NN VBG DT JJ NN , NNP NNP NNP , NN CC JJ NN IN NN CC JJ NNS IN NNP NNP , VBZ , '' VBP VBN VBN NNPS IN JJ NN , VBG DT NN IN IN PRP VBD JJ TO CC RB VBN IN NN IN DT NN . '' DT NNS IN DT NN '' NN VBD VBN TO VB RP PRP$ JJS NNS CC NNS '' IN DT JJ NN , IN NN VBZ VBD IN PRP$ NNS IN DT NN . NNS IN DT NNS VBD VBN TO VB RB IN CD NNS . '' VBZ RB DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP CC DT JJ NN IN DT NN . CC NN VBZ RB RB CC PRP VBP EX VBZ DT NN JJR TO VB . '' 
RB VBD NN TO PRP VBD TO VB IN DT NN NN CC VB DT NN IN IN DT NNS CC VB PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD VB IN IN DT NN . CC RB PRP VBD TO VB NN CC NN , RB RB NN . '' IN PRP VBD , DT NNP NNP NN VBD RB CD JJ NN . DT NNS , WDT VBD RBR VBN RP DT NN NN IN NNP , VBD RB VBN NN NNS CC JJ NNS . JJ NNS IN NNP NNP POS NN VBD VBN , PRP VBD TO PRP$ NN , VBG JJ NN CC VBG NNS VBG NNS . DT NN VBD DT JJ , CC PRP VBD VBN . IN DT JJ JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN NN CC DT NN IN VBG IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN , IN WRB RB JJ PRP VBD VBN TO VB NN , VBP NNS CC VB NNS . PRP VBD VB DT NNP IN NNP NNP , WDT VBD IN CD , VBN IN DT NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP . PRP VBZ NNS IN NN CC JJ JJ NNS NNS CC VB JJ NNS , RB IN PRP VBZ JJ NNS IN NNS IN NN , NN , JJ NN CC VB WRB TO VB NNS IN NNS . 
WRB VBD JJ NN , JJ TO DT JJ NN , NN IN DT NN IN NN NN . WRB VBD NNS VB VBG NN IN JJ NNS . TO VB DT , PRP VBZ JJ TO VB RB TO DT JJ CD POS , DT NN IN WP NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD CD NN IN NN CC NN '' IN NN . PRP VBD DT NN WRB NNS IN JJ NN '' CC JJ NN '' ( VBN IN DT JJ NN NN IN NN ) VBD VBG IN DT JJ NN . NNS VBD IN PRP VBD NN TO VB VBG DT NNS TO VB . NNP NN VBD VBN IN DT NN IN DT VBZ NN '' IN DT NNS VBP JJ : JJR IN CD JJ NNS VBP VBN DT NN : CC JJ NN VBZ JJ . JJ NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN . DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN , CC JJ NNS VBD NNS TO VB NN IN JJ NNS . IN DT JJ CD POS , NNP NNP CC NNP VBD VBG NN NNS IN NNS CC NNS VBG NN NN . ( IN DT NN VBD VBN VBN IN NNS , PRP VBD RB VBN VBN TO DT NN . ) NNS IN RB VBN NN , IN DT NNS VBD PRP TO VB NNS POS JJ NNS . VB DT NNS VBD IN NNS CC IN DT NNP . 
IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB NN , PRP VBP IN DT NN PRP MD , '' PRP VBD . CC JJ NN NN NNS VBP JJ NNS RBR IN NNS . '' DT , IN NN , MD RBR RB VB IN NN NNS , CC NNS MD RBR RB VB IN NN NNS , CC EX VBZ DT NN TO VB IN EX VBZ DT JJR NN NN NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN VBG RB JJ IN JJ , NNP NNP VBD . NNS MD VB TO VB DT NN WDT VBZ DT NN PRP VBP VBG . '' DT NNP IN VBG IN DT NN IN NNP , IN DT NN IN DT NN NN IN NNP POS NN , DT JJ NN IN NNS NNS IN DT NN NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN . IN PRP$ NNS VBZ TO VB IN CD IN DT RBS JJ NNS IN NN NN NN : VBG JJ NN IN VBG CC VBG NN NNS IN DT NNS . 
NNP NNS VBD DT NN VBD RB $ CD CD IN JJ NNS IN PRP$ NNP NN . RB , PRP VBD , DT NN MD VB IN DT JJ IN PRP$ VBN $ CD CD IN NNS DT NN IN VBG NNS CC NN . VBG DT NN IN JJ NNS VBZ RB VBN PRP$ JJ NN , CC DT NNS IN NNP CD VBP VBN TO JJ NNS TO VB NN CC NN NN , '' VBD NNP NN NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNPS IN DT NNP NN WP VBZ DT NN POS JJ NNS . DT JJ NNS , WDT DT NN POS NNS VBN IN NNS , VBP DT JJ CC JJ NNS CC JJ CC JJ NNS . DT JJS NN VBZ IN $ CD CD IN JJ NNS TO VB JJ NN IN NNS WP RB VBN IN DT JJ NNP NNP POS JJ JJ NNS NN . DT NN VBZ JJ NNS TO VB JJ NNS WP RB VBD JJ NNS VBP JJ NN VBG IN JJ NNS IN NNS IN DT NNS . 
VBG NN IN NNS IN NNS IN CD , NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NN IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBZ VBN JJ TO VB DT NNS IN WDT NN VBZ VBN VBN IN DT JJ JJ JJ NN IN RB DT JJ NN IN JJ NN . '' CC PRP VBD IN PRP VBD CD NNS IN JJ NN . JJ VBP DT NN VBD , VBG VBN IN WP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBZ DT JJ NN : DT NN VBZ RB JJ CC MD VB VBN RP IN RBR CC RBR JJ NN IN NN . IN DT NN VBN IN NNP IN DT JJ NNP IN NNP , PRP VBD PRP MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS TO VB IN JJS CD NNS IN NN DT NN CC IN DT NNS WDT VBP VBN VBN : JJ NN , NN IN NN , JJR JJ , JJ NN CC RB IN : VBP DT NN IN JJ NNS . VB PRP$ NN , DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS VBP RB VB IN JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . 
JJ NNP NNP NNP VBZ NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP POS NNP IN NNP . '' 
IN DT JJ NN CC RB , DT , CC IN DT NNS DT , IN NNP NNP POS NN TO VB NNP VBZ VBN . RB PRP VBZ VBG NNP POS NNS VBD RB DT JJ NN TO VB IN JJ NNS IN DT NN : RB VBZ DT NN NN MD VB VBN IN PRP . CC PRP VBZ VBN RP IN VBG NN IN VBG IN NN IN NNS IN NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP CC DT NN IN VBG . NN VBZ DT MD RB VB NNP RB , '' VBD NNP , WP VBZ IN CD NN DT NN '' IN NNS VBG TO VB DT JJ JJ NN . VB RB VBZ NN RB . CC WP VBP PRP TO VB PRP$ WDT VBZ DT JJ NN IN PRP$ . DT NN IN NNS VBP IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN TO VB : NNP POS NNS , IN NN IN NN . CC IN NN , JJ NNS VBP VBN NNS PDT DT NN . PRP VBP DT JJ NN : DT NN VBZ JJ RB JJ RB . CC WRB NN VBZ TO VB VBG IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBP VBN . '' 
POS PRP VBP PRP$ NNS VBG CC VBG , '' VBP VBG PRP$ NN DT JJS NN NN . '' '' NNP NNP VBD . '' DT NN NN '' : DT VBZ , NNS WDT VBP NN NN : VBZ DT NN TO VB RBR JJ , PRP MD VB JJ IN PRP TO VB PRP IN PRP , '' PRP VBD . CC NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNP , DT JJ NN CC JJ NN NN IN NNP , NNP , VBZ NNS VBP JJ IN VBG IN JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS . '' VBP TO VB NNS , '' PRP VBD , '' PRP VBP RB VB TO VB VBN . '' NNP NNP , WP VBD JJ NN IN PRP VBD NN IN PRP$ JJ NN , VBN IN VBG NN IN PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NN PRP VBD IN CD IN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ NN VBD VBN JJ NN NNS . DT JJR NN VBD RB VB NNP , IN PRP VBD DT NN IN NNP MD VB NNS IN PRP$ , CC PRP VBD RB VB TO VB DT NN . 
TO NN , RB CD NNS VBP VBN NNS IN NNP : VBG NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , WP VBZ CD NNS IN NN : CC JJ JJR VBP PRP VBP JJ TO VB IN DT NN . RB RB , DT JJS NN VBZ VBN IN JJ NNS WRB , RB , JJR NNS VBP IN DT NN NN CC RB MD VB VBG NN CC NNS . RB IN DT JJ NN IN NNP VBD VBG IN NN IN NNP IN NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP POS NNP NNP NNP , CD NN IN NNS TO DT NN POS JJ NN VBD NNS IN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NN . PRP VBZ RB JJ IN JJ NNS MD VB DT NN IN VBG PRP$ JJ NN NNS NNS . IN DT , NNS VBP VBN JJ TO NN PRP$ NN IN NNS . CC NNS VBG IN IN JJ NN RB JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS . CC NN NN VBZ RB TO VB JJ IN , IN NN CC NN NN RB RB , NNS VBP RB JJR JJ . NNP NNS VBP DT NN IN NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP . IN DT NN , PRP VBD , NN NNS MD VB DT MD VB DT NN POS NN . 
CC TO VB DT JJ NN , EX VBP DT NNPS , NNS IN DT JJ NN WP VBP DT JJ NNS VBD VBN IN NN NNS CD NNS RB CC WP VBP VBN IN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . VBG TO PRP$ JJ NN , NNP NNP , DT NNPS RB VBP CD NN NNS IN NN , DT JJ IN WDT VBZ TO VB VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN . DT NNS , IN NN , VB DT NNS IN JJ , JJ , JJ CC JJ NNS IN IN PRP VBP VB PDT DT NN . IN PRP MD VB PRP TO VB IN PRP VBP VBN RB RB . CD IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NN NN WDT VBD PRP RB VBD DT NN PRP VBD DT NN RB , WRB NNS VBD DT NN IN JJ NN . NNS VBD RB IN JJ NN MD VB TO VBG : IN IN DT NN TO VB JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN , CC TO NN PRP TO DT NN IN WDT PRP VBP JJ TO VB IN DT NN , VBG MD RB VB JJ . IN DT VBZ DT NN PRP VBD VBN IN CD NNS RB , CC PRP VBZ TO VB IN TO VB TO VB . 
NN WP VBP VBN VBN IN NN NN IN DT RBS RB JJ NNS VBP DT JJR NN IN VBG DT NN IN DT WP VBP RB VBN VBN IN DT , JJ NN VBZ VBN . DT NN IN DT NN , VBN NN IN DT NNS IN NNP NNP , VBD IN CC DT NN JJ NN NN , VBN IN DT NNP , CC DT JJ NN VBD TO VB NNS IN NN NN . DT NN IN DT NN VBZ RB VBN DT NN IN NN . DT NNP . NN MD VB JJ RB WRB DT NN VBZ RB VB NN NN . CC WRB DT JJ NNP . NN VBZ VBN , RB DT JJ NN VBZ DT NN . RB DT NN VBZ JJ , RB . DT NN NNS IN DT JJ NN , IN NN , MD IN NN VBP VBN IN NNS IN DT NN WDT VBP JJ IN JJ NNS . RB IN DT NN VBZ VBN , DT NN , WDT RB VBZ JJ NN CC NN IN NN NNS , MD RB VB JJ IN JJ NNS VBP RB JJ VBG IN PRP MD RB VB DT NN . 
NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN NNP , VBG DT NN NN IN DT NNS CC NN . IN EX PRP VBD DT NN NN NN IN DT NN IN DT NNP NN CC , WRB NNP NNP NNP VBD VBN , VBD DT NN IN DT NNP POS NNP IN NNP NNP . IN DT NN IN CD , NNP NNP POS JJS NN , NNP , WP VBD VBN PRP$ NN POS JJ NN IN NNP NN , VBD VBN IN NNP NNP TO VB NNP NNP NN NN NN . JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD NNP NNP TO VB NN IN DT NNP . NNP NNP VBD VBN VBG IN JJR IN DT NN TO VB DT NN , CC PRP$ CD VBN NNS VBD IN PRP VBD NN IN DT NNP . NNP NNP VBD IN PRP$ NNP NN NN CC VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN . IN PRP VBZ IN DT NN IN NN IN NN , DT NN RB VBZ WP MD VB DT NN NNS . 
DT JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN : DT NN IN DT NN VBZ NN IN DT NN VBN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN VBZ PRP . DT NN IN DT NN IN JJ TO VB NN CC NN VBZ VBN IN IN DT JJ CD POS , WRB PRP VBD VBN TO VB NNS IN NNS VBP JJ NNS . CC NNS : VBG DT NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ RB VBN DT NN : VBP DT NN POS JJ NN NNS VBG IN WRB JJ VBZ VBN CC WP JJ NNS VBP VBN . NNS IN DT JJ JJ NN , IN NNS , JJ NN CC JJ , RB VBN NN , VBP RB VB NN NN IN RB CC RB IN JJ NNS IN NNS , VBD NNS CC NNS . NNP NNS VBP DT NN TO VB DT NN IN NN , WDT RB VBZ DT NN NN RB CC VBZ JJR TO VB , DT NN VBZ . DT IN JJ NNS VBP RP IN NN RBR RB , IN JJ NN . 
IN DT NN IN NN IN JJ NN VBD JJ JJ IN , DT NNS VBD TO VB DT NN . NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP CC DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBD PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN IN VBG DT NN . VBG NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . CC PRP VBP RP IN NNS , PRP MD VB PRP IN PRP VBP RB VB PRP$ NN TO VB RB . DT VBZ PRP$ JJ NN . CC NN , PRP MD RB VB IN DT NN IN NN NN WRB JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN . JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN NN NN . '' CC TO DT NNS , DT NN VBD JJ IN VBG JJ NNS . NNP JJ VB JJ NN . WP VBP PRP$ JJ JJ NNS . WRB RB MD NNS VB TO VB PRP . DT NNS , IN NN , VBP DT JJ NN IN NN IN NNS VBG JJ VBN IN DT NN . RB , JJ NN NNS MD VB IN NN . 
WRB NNS VBP VBN , PRP$ NN MD VB JJ , JJ CC NN . DT NN CC NN NNS VBP RB VBN TO VB NN NNS . IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NN NNP NN , IN NN , VBP JJ NN , JJ NN CC NN NNS . CC DT NNS : IN JJS DT RB VBG PRP$ JJ NNS : VB DT NNS DT NN IN NN , RB JJ IN VBN IN JJ NNS . CC DT NNS VBP PRP , RB . VBG DT NN NN MD RB VB IN NN POS NNS CC JJ NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS NNS VBP NN VBZ IN PRP$ NN . DT NNS VBP VBN , IN NN , DT NN VBZ NNP CC NNP MD VB IN JJ NN . CC NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP , VBZ IN PRP$ NN POS NNS VBP VBN IN CD NNS VBG IN JJ JJ NNS IN NNS CC NNS . CC NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD JJS JJ NNS VBP VBN VBN IN NNS CC JJ NNS RB IN IN NNS . CD NNS IN DT NNS NNS VBP RB RB DT NN IN JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
POS NN IN NNS WP VBP VBG DT NN NN NN IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC PRP VBP VBG NN , RB IN NN , WDT VBZ PRP VB . '' PRP VBD IN DT NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN VB TO DT DT NN CC DT NN . CC VBP RB VB PRP VB IN NN , '' PRP VBD . DT NN TO VBG RB IN NNS VBZ TO VB DT NN PRP MD VB IN CC VB TO , NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ VBG DT NN , VBZ PRP RB PRP MD VB DT NN NN . '' CC , PRP VBD , IN PRP VBP IN DT NN VBZ JJ TO VB RB IN PRP$ JJ , IN CC IN NN , EX VBZ RB CD JJ NN : POS VBP IN IN RB . '' NNP NNP NNP 
JJ NN RBS RB VBZ JJ NNS WP VBP IN CD . NNS IN CD CC JJR JJ NNS , DT VBZ , RB , NN CC NN , WP VBP VBD DT NN VBP IN RB JJR NN . PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB VBN IN DT NN POS NN IN IN DT NN POS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . NNP IN DT NN IN NN NN VBP RB IN JJR NN . CC JJ NN IN NNS VBZ TO VB RP PRP$ JJ NN NN CC VB PRP IN PRP$ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD IN NNS WP VBP JJ IN PRP$ NNS POS JJ NNS VBP DT NN NN NN NN IN DT NNP NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP ( NN ) , WDT VBZ VB NNS DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN IN JJ NNS . DT NNS VBP IN NNS WP VBP NN NNS , IN NNP CC NNP , WDT VBP DT NNS , MD VB RBR JJ TO JJ NN , IN DT RBR RB DT NN VBZ , DT JJR PRP VBZ IN NN IN JJ NNS IN JJ . DT MD RB VB WRB NNS WP VBP VBN NN RBR IN RB , CC WP VBP JJ NNS , VBP RB RBR JJ TO VB DT NN . RB , DT NNS VBP DT NNP TO JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN . 
NN VBD VBN DT NN RB RB IN DT NN POS , WRB NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN , VBD IN JJ CC JJ NNS MD VB NN NNS . DT NN VBD VBN , NN , IN DT JJ NN , CC VBD RB JJ IN NNS VBD IN JJ NNS CC JJ NNS . DT NN NNS VBD JJ : CC RB , NN IN DT NN NNS CC NNS VBD VBG IN NNS IN JJ NN NNS . IN DT CD POS , NNS VBD JJ NN . IN NN , NNP NNP VBD NNS IN DT NNS IN NNS CC VBD PRP IN DT JJ NN . JJ RB , DT NN NNS VBD VBG NNS VBN NNS , WDT VBP NN . NNP , NNS VBP RB DT JJ NN IN NN NNS CC NNS : JJ NNS WDT VBP NN NN IN DT NN NN CC VB VBG RP NNS IN NN . DT JJ NNS VBP DT NN CC NN VBZ PRP$ JJ NN . RB , DT NN VBZ , CC DT NN POS NNS VB IN DT NN : IN IN JJ NNS , WDT VBP VBG . RB , DT NN VBZ IN DT NN IN RB VBG NN NNS . IN DT NN VBZ JJ RB , PRP VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ DT NN CC VBZ DT NN NN CC NN . 
DT JJ NN , PRP CC NNS VBN , VBZ RB RB JJ IN JJ NN IN NNS . NNP CC NNP VBP RB IN DT NN IN WP PRP VBP MD VB DT JJR NN TO VB . CC IN RB , NNP NNP VBD , EX VBP DT JJ NN IN DT NN . '' RB , PRP VBZ PRP IN DT NNP POS NN . CC VBP PRP MD VB DT JJ , JJ NN IN NNP POS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS MD RB VB RB JJ . '' DT NNP NNP DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBD NNS IN NNP POS NN . NNP NNS MD VB NN IN DT NN CC NNS IN DT NNS . DT NNS MD VB JJ IN health . 
IN , DT JJ NNS IN NN IN DT NNP NNPS VBP VBN VB NN IN DT NN WDT MD VB JJ TO VB , RB IN NNS VBD JJ JJ NNS IN NN IN PRP . IN DT NNP NNP NN , WDT VBD IN CD , CD NN IN DT CD NNS WP VBD NN VBD PRP VBD DT NN RB CC RB JJ , IN CD NN VBD PRP MD VB PRP TO NNS CC NNS . RB IN NNS IN WP DT NN VBD : PRP VBD RP VBG TO VB JJ NNS : NN VBD RB JJ : CD NN IN PRP VBD PRP MD VB PRP RB IN PRP VBD TO VB DT NN . NNP IN JJ , DT NN IN NNP , CC RB DT NNS IN VBG PRP RB , VBP RB VBN VB DT NN IN JJ NNS CC JJ NNS RB TO JJR NN , VBG NNS TO VB DT JJ CC JJ NN IN WDT JJ IN PRP MD VB JJ NNS . IN DT JJ JJ NNS , NNS IN DT NN VBP VBN VBG JJ NN NN RBR IN PRP VBP RB VBN NNS : IN DT NNS RB RB IN CD CC RB CD NNS IN DT NN POS JJ NN . VB DT IN DT NN IN NN NN : WDT MD VB RB TO CD NNS IN JJ NN , DT TO VB NN , TO VB NN CC TO VB DT JJ NN IN VBG PRP IN DT NN IN DT NN : CC PRP VBP DT NN IN DT NN DT NN VBZ CC VBZ PRP VBZ VBG DT JJ NN CC DT NN PRP MD VB PRP . 
JJ , PRP VBP IN NNP , CD NNS IN PRP$ NNP NN . DT JJ NN IN NN NN CD '' NNS PRP$ JJ PRP$ NN , IN PRP VBP PRP$ JJR NN , PRP VBZ PRP CD NNS CC PRP VBP IN NN NNS . DT JJ NN , PRP VBZ , VBD JJ . '' PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NN TO VB DT NN , CC PRP VBD RB IN JJ NN IN DT JJ VBD IN IN DT NN NN . PRP VBD RP DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN POS NN IN PRP CC DT NNS POS NNP . '' RB DT NN NN VBN IN TO VB DT NN IN DT NN , VBD DT NN CC VBD DT NN . VBG IN DT NN NN , NNP VBD DT NN IN JJ NN RB . JJR IN VBG DT VBZ IN PRP$ NNS IN PRP VBD VBN , '' PRP VBZ , '' VBP RB VBN NN IN PRP . '' PRP VBP NN IN DT NN , PRP RBR RB IN PRP IN PRP VBZ RB VBN ( CC MD VB , CD NNS RB , IN PRP VBZ IN NN JJ ) . RB PRP VBZ RP IN DT NN IN JJ NN CC NNS , CD , VBP PRP VBG TO VB PRP . '' DT NN , IN JJ , VBZ PRP IN NN . PRP VBP DT NN . PRP VBZ RB IN PRP VBP RB VBN PRP VBZ TO NN RB . 
DT NN VBD WRB NNP CC NNP NNP , WP VBP CD JJ NNS , VBD IN RB VBN TO VB JJ JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN IN DT JJ NN . IN DT JJ JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ , DT NNP CC DT IN PRP$ NNS IN JJ NNS VBD NNP NNS IN DT NN VBD VBN . DT JJ NNS RB , PRP MD VB VBN JJ IN DT NNS MD VB VBN PDT DT NN CC JJ NN IN NN CC NNP NNS . CC DT NN IN NNS IN NNS IN NN CC JJ NNS MD VB VBN IN NN IN DT NN POS NN CC NN CC NN VBZ DT JJ NN WDT VBZ RB VBN DT NN TO VB DT JJ IN NNS CC NN IN DT NN IN NNS : IN EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS VBP NN JJR IN JJ NNS . IN NN VBD RB RB VBN VBN TO JJ NNS , NNS VBD RB VBN RB RB IN DT NN IN NNP NNP VBZ JJ JJ NN VBZ IN DT NN CC NNP NNS VBD VBN RP . IN JJ NNP NNP , NNS IN NNS IN NN VBN NN NN NNS TO VB DT JJ JJ NN IN NNP NNP , WDT VBZ PRP$ NN , TO VB IN DT NNS VBD RB VBN . DT NN VBZ VBG . 
NNP NNP VBZ PRP VBZ VBN DT JJ NN IN DT NNS IN DT NN VBD DT NN JJ NN . CC VBD RB VB TO VB RB JJ JJ NN NN CC NN , '' PRP VBD . MD NNS VB TO PRP IN DT NN CC VB WRB PRP VBD IN DT NN NN JJ NN CC VBD PRP TO PRP$ NNS . RB DT NNS VBP VBG NNS IN , UH , NNS , NNP , VBD PRP$ JJ NNP NN CC RB PRP MD RB VB RB RB . '' '' 
IN DT NNS WP VBD NNP , CD NN VBD IN JJ NN , VBN IN CD NN IN DT NNS IN DT NN NN . DT NNS VBN IN DT JJ NN VBD JJ , DT JJ NN IN NNP , CC NN , RB VBN IN NN , DT JJR NNP . NN . IN NN , RB CD NN IN DT NNS VBN IN NNP . VBD JJ JJ NN IN DT NN , VBN IN CD NN IN DT NN NN . CC JJ NNS WP VBD VBN NN IN PRP$ NNS VBD RBR JJ TO VB VBN NN IN PRP$ NNS CC RB IN PRP VBD TO VB VBN PRP . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN POS JJ NN CC DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP , VBD DT JJ NN NN VBN IN JJ NNP . NNS VBG NN VBD RB VBN TO VBN NN RB RB IN VBG . PRP VBD IN DT NN MD VB JJ CC VBD PRP VBD IN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNS . 
PRP VBP IN DT NNS MD VB VBN RB RB IN NNS , CC RB IN NN NNS , NN NNS CC JJ NN NNS WDT VBP RB IN NN NNS , CC RB VBN IN JJ NN NNS IN JJ NNS TO VB VBN RB JJ NN NNS . CD CD NNS IN DT NNP NNPS VBD TO NN IN NN , CD IN NNS CC CD IN DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN NN NN IN DT NNP NNP POS NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP , NNP . '' IN PRP MD VB DT NN IN DT IN NN RB JJ , NN RB JJ PRP MD VB JJ CC VBD RB RB . '' DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NN VBZ RB JJ , NNP NNP VBD . IN DT NNS WP VBP IN DT NN , CD NN NN TO NN , PRP VBD , CC VBG NNS VBP VBG NNS IN NN IN PRP$ NN MD VB PRP$ NNS IN NN . 
DT NNS VBP DT NN NN , RB VB RB , CC RB VB PRP$ NNS JJ . IN PRP , DT JJ NN VBD VBZ TO VB DT NN IN DT NN NN . NNS MD VB DT IN PRP$ NNS , IN DT NN IN NNS WDT VBP NN NN TO RB VB CC VB DT NN . DT NNS VBP DT CD TO CD NN NN IN DT NN MD VB JJ TO VB IN DT NN CC RB RB , VBG DT NN , CC IN DT CD NN NN IN PRP MD VB JJ NNS , VBG DT NN NN WRB PRP VBZ CC DT JJ NN IN NN . DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN : PRP MD VB $ CD TO $ CD , NNP NNP VBD : VBZ PRP$ JJ NN . '' VBZ RB DT JJ , JJ JJ NN WDT VBZ JJ NN NNS , '' PRP VBD . RB , EX VBZ DT NN , IN DT NN VBG DT NN IN DT NN . 
VBG TO DT NN IN DT NNP NNP , JJ DT NN MD VB IN DT RBS JJ NNS JJ IN NN , VBG NNPS RBR JJ NNS IN JJR NN ( DT VBN $ CD DT NN ) IN JJ NN NNS CC NN NNS . JJ NNS VBP JJ , RB JJ NN VBZ DT NN TO VB PRP VB JJ NNS IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP WP VBZ NN IN DT NNS . JJ NNS VBP DT NN IN NN NN , RB RB DT JJ NN IN NN NN , IN DT JJ NN . DT NN IN NNPS CD CC JJR MD VB IN DT JJ CD NNS TO IN CD CD , VBG TO NN NN NNS . IN RB , NNS MD VB IN RB CD NN IN DT NN , RB IN RB CD NN IN CD . RBR DT NN , CD NN NNS , IN PRP NNP NNP , VBD DT NN VBG IN DT NN TO VB $ CD CD RB IN NN IN DT JJ NN : VBG DT NN IN JJ NNS IN CD NNS . 
PRP VBD DT NN VBD . JJ NNS VBP IN NN RB . NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBD DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN , NNP NNP , CD , WP VBZ VBN NNP POS NN CC VBZ IN DT NN NN RB . PRP VBD RB VB , PRP VBD , WRB PRP$ NN VBD NN NN , VBD VBG NN IN PRP$ NNS CC VBD NN . CC DT NN IN NNS , PRP VBZ DT JJ NN TO RB VB NNS VB RB CC VB RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . VB PRP VBZ PRP$ NN , PRP MD RB VB DT . MD PRP VB PRP$ NN NN . '' IN JJ NNS , EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN IN PRP VBP NN , PRP MD VB VBN : IN PRP$ NNS , NNS IN DT NN CC PRP$ NNS . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . CD NNS IN PRP IN VBG VBN PRP$ NN CC RB VBG DT NN NN . '' IN DT NN , DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN NN NNS CC NNS IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNP NNP . 
NN NNS VBD VBN IN RB JJ IN CD JJ NNP NNS DT NN MD VB IN DT NNS IN DT NN VBD DT NN POS NN . PRP VBD IN PRP VBD , RB , IN RB IN CD NNS MD VB VBN IN DT NNS . DT NN IN NNS VBN IN NNP NNS VBD RB IN NNP IN NN IN DT NN POS VBG DT NNS POS NN . CC DT NNS VBP VBN NNS IN DT NNS POS NN . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC NN IN NN NNS IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD DT NN IN DT NNS IN NNP NNP IN NNP VBG IN PRP MD VB JJ TO VB DT NN IN DT NNS VBN IN NNP POS NN NNS IN DT NN VBD JJ NNS . IN NN , PRP VBD , DT NNS VBD RB VBN IN RB CD NNS : RB RB RB TO VB IN PRP MD VB TO VB . 
IN DT JJ JJ NNS , PRP VBP VBN VBN TO DT JJ NN : NNS VBG TO VB CD DT IN IN DT NN IN PRP NN IN NN DT NN IN NN NNS IN DT NN . IN DT NN , PRP VBP VBG TO VB DT NN POS JJ JJ NN . DT JJ NNS RB , PDT DT NN MD VB VBN JJ . CC RB , CD JJ NNS VBP PRP VBP NNS IN DT NN . NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN , VBZ PRP$ NN MD VB VBN RB . NNP NNP , WP VBD JJ IN CD IN VBG DT JJ NN VBN JJ IN VBG DT NN POS JJ NN IN PRP$ NN , VBZ PRP VBZ DT NN NN IN NN IN DT JJ NN . DT NN , PRP VBZ , VBZ DT NN , JJ IN JJ NNP . NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP POS JJ NN CC RB PRP$ NN NN , VBZ PRP VBZ RB VB NNP NNP , CC RB PRP VBZ VBG IN NN RB RBR . NNP NNP , DT NN , VBZ PRP VBZ VBN NNS IN CD NNS WP VBP TO VB VBN , CC IN DT JJ CD NNS IN NNP PRP MD VB DT NNS POS NN IN VBN JJ NNS IN WDT NN VBP VBN VBN . PRP VBZ IN , IN PRP$ NN , PRP MD VB NNP NN IN DT IN DT NNS VBN IN DT NN VBZ DT JJ JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . 
DT NN , DT NNS VBP , JJ NN IN NNS . NNS VBP TO VB IN DT NN : PRP VBP TO VB PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP . NNP NNS VBP VBN VBG DT IN DT NNS . CC IN DT NNS IN NNS VBP RB IN DT NN NN NN POS NN , NNS VBP RB RB VB WRB JJ NNP . NNS EX VBP IN NNP NNP . CC VB DT VBZ , VBD CC MD VB TO VB DT NN IN PRP VBP TO VB IN CC DT NN NN NN IN NNP NNP VBZ TO VB IN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN . IN NN IN DT NN IN DT NN POS NNP NN VBN IN NNP . NNP NNP NNP , DT VBG NN VBZ VBN VBG IN DT NN IN NNS IN NNS TO JJ NNS CC NN POS NNS . CC NNS CC NNS VBP RB VBN IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ WRB NNS VBP NN IN DT NN PRP VBP . NNS VBP NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS . 
RB , RB IN NN IN CD NNS RB , NNP NNP VBZ PRP$ NN IN VBG RP IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN . DT JJ NN , PRP VBZ RP , VBZ RB JJR IN RBR JJ NNS IN NNS CC JJ NNS . '' RB VB PRP , '' PRP VBD . NN POS RB IN DT NN . '' JJR NNP , JJR NNP NNP VBG DT NN IN DT NN IN NNS WP VBP RB JJ IN PRP$ JJ NN , CC VBN IN DT NN CC JJ IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN MD VB PRP IN DT NN IN NN CC NN , VBP VBP DT JJR IN NNP NNP POS VBG NN RB IN NNP NNP . RB IN DT VBG NN RB VBZ NN IN PRP . CD NN VBN TO NNS VBG IN NN NN VBZ IN VBG MD RB VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN NN NN . NNS VBP VBN IN NN NNS MD VB VBN RB , NNS MD VB VBN IN DT JJ NN IN JJ , CC NN NNS MD VB VBN . DT NN IN NN NN CC NNS IN NNS CC JJ NN VBN RP IN NNS IN DT VBG NN MD VB RB VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN , CC DT NN RB VBZ TO DT JJ NN . 
JJ IN NNP POS JJS JJ NNS MD VB VB DT NN IN DT NN , CC NNS WP$ NNS VBP VBN EX MD VB VBN TO NNP IN NN NNS CC JJ NNS , NN IN JJ NNP NNS MD VB VB CC VB JJ IN . DT NN MD VB NNP NNP POS NN IN VBG JJR IN DT NN POS NN IN JJ NN IN DT JJR NN IN NNS . JJ NN TO JJ NN VBZ JJ TO JJ NNS IN NN , DT NNS VBD . JJ NN VBZ DT NNP . CD NN WDT NNS VBP IN JJ NNS IN NN , CC NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS IN NN VBP VBN RB IN NNS IN IN NNS . IN NN , IN DT JJ NN IN JJR IN CD NNS IN NNP WDT VBD IN CD , RB CD NN VBD VBN NN NN CD NNS IN NN , VBN IN JJ NNS VBP TO CD NN , NNP NNP VBD . VBN IN DT NN , DT NN VBD IN RB CD NN IN DT NNS VBD NN , CC DT RBS JJ , NNS . IN DT NN POS NN , DT NN VBZ VBN TO CD NN , NNP NNP VBD . 
DT NN IN DT NN POS NNS VBZ JJ . WRB DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN , VBG NN NNS CC NN NNS , IN NN VBG DT JJ NN , NNS VBP NN . DT NN NN VBD NNP NNP POS NN , WP VBD NN NN , IN PRP VBD JJR IN CD NNS TO VB . DT NN VBD VBG , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN VBD RB JJ . '' CC WRB DT NN VBZ IN DT JJ NN NN RB DT NN , IN DT NN IN PRP MD VB NN IN NNS , DT NN VBZ RB JJ : RB , RB CC RB . NNS VBP TO VB DT JJR JJ NN TO VB PRP$ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NN NNP , DT NN CC NNP NN WP VBZ VBG DT NN IN NN . NNS VBP VBG VBN IN DT JJ NN TO VB IN DT NN CC NNS IN NN . DT JJ NNS JJ NNS IN JJ NN NNS IN NNS MD VB IN JJ CC NN . 
IN RB , JJ NNS VBD , DT NN VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN WRB DT NN IN WRB TO VB MD VB IN NNS TO VB . RB , EX VBZ DT NN IN JJ NNP VBZ DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP , NNP , WP VBZ VBG DT NN IN DT NN IN DT NNP NNPS NNP NNPS NNP NNP , WDT VBZ NNS IN NNS . IN DT NN CC DT NN VBZ IN PRP$ NN VBZ VBN TO IN NNS . CC WRB NN VBZ DT NN , NN VBZ TO VB RB CC VB IN PRP VBZ JJ . DT VBZ DT NN PRP VBP IN . '' 
NNP RB VBD IN DT JJ NN IN NNP CD , CD , IN PRP VBD TO NNP NN IN JJ NN NN . VBZ DT NN IN PRP VBD PRP VBD IN NN NN IN PRP$ NN IN DT VBD JJ , '' NNP VBZ . '' VBD DT JJ CC VBD NN TO PRP$ NN . '' PRP VBD RB DT JJ NN . NNP CC NNP VBD VBN VBG IN DT NN IN NNP CD , WRB NNP VBD PRP IN DT NN . CC IN NNP IN DT NN , DT NN NN VBD VBN PRP$ NN , JJ NN TO VB PRP$ NNP . NNP NNP NN NNP VBZ DT CD NNP FW NNP . NNP RB VBD , NNP VBD VBN PRP RP IN DT NN CD NN WDT VBD PRP VB DT JJ NNS IN DT NN . CC IN NN VBN IN DT NN POS JJ NN : JJ NN , CD TO CD NN JJ NN NN , IN JJ NN . PRP VBD DT NN NN : VBN RP IN DT NN NN , DT JJ NN VBD VBG IN DT JJ NN WDT VBD RB VBG RB IN DT VBG NN . 
DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP , DT NN NN WDT VBZ PRP VBZ JJR IN CD NN NNS , VBD DT NN IN PRP$ NNP NN : CD DT NN VBZ NNP VBD DT NN TO VB JJ NNS IN VBG NNP TO VB CC JJ NNS IN JJ NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN . '' IN DT NN , JJS JJ NNS VBP NN . NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP POS NNP NN VBG DT NNS CC VBD NNS IN NNP , VBG IN JJR NN VBZ VBN . '' JJ NNS TO NNP NN VBP VBG VBN IN DT NN IN NN IN JJ NN NN , NNP NNP VBD . RB VBN IN DT NN IN NN NNS , NN VBZ RB VBN TO VBN NN NN . CC VBD DT NN IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ JJ IN JJ NN NN MD VB NNS TO VB DT JJ NN RBR IN DT JJ NN RBR . DT NN VBZ , IN WP NN . PRP VBP PRP MD VB DT RB JJ NN . '' 
RB , DT NNS VBD . CC PRP$ NN VBD PRP$ IN IN PRP VBD RB JJ CC NN , PRP MD VB JJ NNP CD NNS . IN NNP CD , IN JJ NN , DT VBZ WP VBD . PRP VBZ RB CD , DT RB NN IN JJ NN VBN IN DT NN WP VBZ IN DT NNP NNP CC NNS VBP NNS IN DT NNS . PRP VBZ NNS CC NN , CC RB VBZ PRP JJ . IN PRP VBD PRP VBD RB TO CD , PRP VBZ VBN IN CD NNS IN DT JJ NN . CC VBP , '' NNP NNP VBD RB , '' JJ . '' PRP$ NNS VBP VBN PRP$ IN PRP VBZ TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN , WP$ NN VBZ RB JJ . MD VB , '' PRP VBD . '' NN . '' DT NNS IN JJ NNS VBP JJ , CC EX VBZ JJ NN IN WRB RB TO VB PRP , RB JJ NNS , CC WRB JJ NN NN VBZ . DT NN VBZ RB VBN RB IN DT NN CC NN . NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS . IN PRP$ JJ NN TO VB DT NN , DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNP , IN DT NN JJ NNP IN DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD IN DT NN IN NNS IN CD CC CD VBD IN DT NN VBD VBN TO CD NN , CC IN CD JJ NNS IN CD , IN CD NN . 
CC DT JJ NN VBZ IN NN NN RB VBZ IN DT NN JJ TO DT IN DT JJ NN NN NN . DT VBZ TO VB , DT NN , WDT VBZ DT NN NN , RB VBZ CD JJ NNS IN NN : IN VBG NN , VBG NN CC VBG NN . IN NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN , RB DT JJ MD VB TO VB JJ IN DT NN , WDT VBZ IN NNS IN NNS VBP VBN IN DT JJ JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBD DT . CC JJ NN VBZ IN NN NN VBZ RBR JJ TO VB DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN NN , '' PRP VBD PRP . CC NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP CC CD IN DT NN POS JJ NNS IN NN , VBD : WP VBZ RB JJ . DT NN VBZ IN DT JJ IN DT JJ NNS IN NN . PRP MD RB VB RP DT NN NN IN NN NNP , CC DT JJ VBZ JJ IN DT NN NN NN . '' 
DT NNS VBP IN NNS IN DT NN NNS MD VB VBN IN NNS WDT MD VB DT JJ NNS POS NNS , CC PRP VBP WRB JJ NNS MD VB DT JJ TO VB NN . CD IN DT JJ NNS NNS DT JJ NN IN NN IN NN NN . DT JJ VBZ DT NN IN PRP CC WRB VBN IN NNS IN DT JJ NN VBZ TO DT JJ NN . PRP VBZ JJ , '' NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD IN DT JJ NNS . NNP NNP , WP VBD RB VBN IN DT NN , VBD , '' VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN IN NN NN NNS . '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN IN DT NNP NNPS NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP IN NNP WP RB VBD RB VBN IN DT NN , VBD PRP VBZ JJ NN RB . '' NNS WP VBP RB VB CC JJ NN MD RB VB DT NN . CC DT NNS MD VB VB WRB DT NN VBZ RB RBR JJ IN NNPS IN IN NNPS IN JJ NN . IN CD NN IN NNS IN DT JJ NN VBP DT VBN JJ NN IN JJR IN CD NN IN NNS VBP PRP . 
DT NN POS RB JJ NN NN VBZ JJ . IN DT NNP NN , NNS VBD IN TO VB DT NN IN NN IN VBG JJ IN DT JJ NN NNS IN PRP$ NN NNS . JJR JJ NNS , IN JJ NNS , VBP JJ : NNP NNP IN NNP RB VBD RB $ CD CD IN CD NNS . CC PRP MD RB RB VB RB , CC EX MD VB DT NN IN WP PRP VBD IN . IN DT , NN NNS TO VB RP . CC , IN IN DT NN NN , DT NN VBZ IN RB RB MD DT NNS VBP NNS CC DT NNS MD VB JJ JJR TO VB , NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , VBD . WP IN EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN CC DT NN . WRB MD PRP VB IN CD IN IN DT CD NNS VBZ TO NN JJ IN DT JJ NN . WP IN DT JJ NNS VBD VBN IN NN NN . 
NNP , WDT VBZ IN NN CC VBZ DT VBN NN CC DT JJ NN , VBZ RB VBN IN NNS WRB PRP VBP IN CD NNS JJ . IN JJ NNS MD VB RB JJ , PRP MD VB IN NN IN NNS , NN NNS , VBP DT NN IN NNS CC VB JJ NNS , IN VBG PRP$ NNS . IN NNS , DT NNS IN NN VBP RB JJ , IN NNS RB VBP TO VB CC MD VB NN . NNP NNP , WP$ NN , NNP , RB CD , VBD RB VBN TO VB DT NN , VBD VBG NNS IN DT NNP NNP NN NN . IN JJ NNS , PRP VBD , PRP VBD IN JJ NNS IN DT NN VBD IN PRP$ NN , DT NN NN VBN IN DT NNP NNP . PRP CC PRP$ NN , DT JJ NN , VBD TO VB IN EX MD VB NN JJR IN NN VBG PDT DT NNS . JJR IN CD NNS RB , PRP VBD TO VB , IN PRP$ JJ , DT NN IN DT NN IN NNP . 
PRP VBZ JJ TO NN RB WRB DT NN VBD , CC NNP NNP NNP POS NN IN CD , WDT VBD VBN RB IN JJ NNS , VBD IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN CC DT NN NN NN VBD DT NN , CC DT NN IN NNS MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN . NNP NNS VBP VBG NNS IN NNS VBG NN NN , CC DT JJ NN '' : IN NNS VBP DT NN TO VB TO VB NNS : IN PRP MD VB VBN JJ IN DT NN : IN NNP NNS MD VB TO VB PRP TO VB NNS . TO DT NN IN JJ NN NNS , CC VBG DT MD IN JJ JJ NNS , DT NNP NN VBZ RB VBN DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN . DT JJ NNS CC DT NNPS IN NNP VBP VBN DT NN IN NNS IN JJ NNS , VBG PRP VBP RBR JJ IN RB VBN IN VBG NN CC VBG IN RB JJ NNS . NNP JJ NN NNS VBP DT NNP NN VBZ VBN DT NN POS NN IN NNP NN TO VB PRP$ NN NN RB , JJ NNS CC VBG DT NN IN JJ NNS IN NNS , RB IN NNP . NNP JJ NN VBZ VBN VBN IN DT NNP , CC DT NN IN DT NNPS IN NNP VBZ IN NN TO VB DT NN IN DT NN NN ( RB VBN IN DT NN VBZ NNP CC NNP ) IN DT NNS IN PRP VBZ JJ . DT JJ NN IN DT NN , RB , VBZ DT JJ NN VBZ NN TO NN . RB , DT NN NN CC DT NN NN NN : IN IN PRP$ NN IN NN , DT NNS IN WDT PRP VBP CC DT NN IN PRP VBP VBN IN NN : VBP VBN DT NN IN NN CC NN CC VBP VBN DT JJ NN TO DT JJ NN NN . 
NNS VBP RB VBG TO VB VBG IN DT NN IN DT NNP . POS IN NNS CC NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP . POS NN IN NN NN . NNP NNP VBD DT NN VBD VBN IN JJ NNS VBP JJ CC JJ IN NNS CD CC JJR WP VBP DT JJ JJ NN . PRP VBD IN PRP VBD RB JJ WRB VBG DT NNS IN VBG DT NNS MD VB NN CC NN . DT CD JJS NN NN NNS VBD PRP RB VBP NNS TO VB TO DT NNS . NNP NNP , WDT VBZ NN NNS , VBD PRP VBZ DT NN NN . DT JJ JJ NN , NNP NNP , VBD IN PRP VBZ NNS CC NNS TO VB DT NNS CC IN PRP VBZ VBG IN NNS TO VB PRP . IN CD JJ NN NNS VBD VBN IN DT NNP NNPS IN CD , RB IN IN CD IN CD , VBG TO NNS IN DT NN IN NNS VBN IN DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP . DT NNS VBP RB VB NNS WP VBD NNS IN NN IN NN NN . 
NNP IN DT , RB RB IN DT NN PRP , VBP IN DT NN IN DT VBG JJ NN IN DT JJ JJ NN CC NNS IN WP VBP VBN IN JJ NNS , VBN TO VB DT JJ NN . NNP NN NN VBZ DT NN NN WDT MD VB VBN IN DT NNS . DT NNS VBP JJ NNS '' WDT MD VB $ CD CC JJR DT NN TO VB JJ NNS TO NNS VBG TO VB RP DT NN . DT JJ NNS VBP IN DT NNS VBP JJ CC RB JJ . NNS IN DT JJ NN VBN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBD IN JJ NN NN VBD VB JJ NN NN CC JJ NN IN NN NNS , CC IN DT NNS VBD VBN IN JJ NN NNS IN RB PDT DT NNS . DT NN NNS VBD NNS , NNS , VBG NNS CC JJ NNS . NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC DT NN IN DT NN , VBZ PRP VBZ IN JJ NN MD RB VB JJ TO VB CD NNS IN PRP$ NN . IN PRP VBP IN NN MD RB RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN WP VBZ PRP MD VBZ IN DT NNP NNP NNP NN . '' 
IN VBG DT JJ NN , DT JJ NN NNS IN DT JJ IN DT NN NN , WRB PRP VBZ VBN CC VBN CC MD VB VBN RB IN DT NN NN IN NN , CC VBN IN JJ NN NNS . IN DT NN NN VBZ , PRP VBZ TO DT JJ NN IN DT NN , IN PRP MD RB VB PRP$ NN IN IN DT JJ IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN . IN JJ NN , DT NN NN , RB VBD DT NN , VBZ DT JJ NN . DT NN , IN NN , VBZ JJ NN TO DT NN NN . DT NN RB , NNS VBP DT JJ NNS , RB VB . NNS VBP JJ . DT VBG NN NNS VBP CC VBP , VBG DT NN WDT MD VB VBN IN JJ NNS . IN DT NN VBZ , PRP VBZ JJ IN VBG RP JJ NNS CC VBG DT NN IN DT NN . IN JJ NNS , NNS VBP VBN TO VB DT IN DT NNS TO VB DT NNS CC PRP$ JJ NNS WDT VBP DT NNS . JJ VBG NNS IN NN VBP VBN NN IN NN NNS . 
EX VBP NNS IN DT NN WRB EX VBP JJR NNS WP VBP NNS VBG IN NN IN PRP MD VB , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBZ WRB . VBG DT VBZ RB VBN NN VBZ RB JJ . '' IN NN , PRP VBD , DT JJ NN WDT VBZ VBG JJR NNS IN VBG DT NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN . JJ NNS VBP , WRB VBP PRP VB VBG NNS DT NN . '' '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ PRP IN PRP VBZ JJ : IN PRP VBZ VBG NNS IN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS CC DT , PRP VBD , VBZ RB JJ . CC VB DT TO VB DT RB JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . RB VBG CC RB VBG . '' NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP NNP JJ NN IN NNP IN NN IN NN NNS VBD RB TO DT NN IN NNP NNP NNS WDT VBD NNS IN CD . PRP VBD CD NNS IN IN CD , RB CD IN IN CD . DT NN RB VBD DT NN POS JJ NN TO DT RB JJ NN : NNP NNS IN NNP . EX VBP CD , RB CD . 
NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NN , VBZ NN NNS MD VB RP VBG VBN CC VBN . JJ NNS VBP VBG TO VB TO VB PRP TO VB JJ IN DT NN , DT NN NN , NN , '' PRP VBD . JJ NNS VBP VBG TO VB NN IN DT NN . '' RB , NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD JJ NNS VBD RB NN JJ TO VB DT NN CC NN IN NN NNS . DT VBG NNS IN DT JJ VBP RB RB VBG DT NN , PRP VBD . NNS VBP TO VB NN TO VB PRP . '' DT JJ NNP IN DT NN NNP NNP , DT NNP NN , VBD DT JJ JJ NN JJ NNP , PRP VBD VBN IN NN IN WP PRP VBD DT NNP NN NN . '' PRP VBD VBN NN . NNP NNPS . DT NN IN NN NN . RB DT JJ NN IN NN , NNS CC JJ NNS . 
IN CD NNS IN VBG IN DT JJ NN NNP MD VB NN NNS CC NNS , DT NN NNP VBD TO NN : PRP VBD NNP IN DT NN . DT NN IN DT NN VBZ JJ , CC RB RB IN NNS IN NNS IN NNS VBP VBN NNP . PRP RB VBZ DT NN IN NNP CC NNP NNP NN IN DT JJ NN RB RB IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS IN RB RB NNP CC PRP$ JJ NN IN NN NNS . IN CD , PRP VBD NN IN DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN VBD DT NN VBG DT JJ NN NN NN IN NNP . PRP$ NN , VBN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN VBN TO VB , DT RB VBN JJ JJ NN IN JJ NNS , NNP VBZ DT CD NNS JJR NN NN NN . IN NN , NNP VBD IN JJ NNS IN DT NN VBD VBN , CC VBD DT RB JJ NN NN NNS TO DT JJ JJ NN IN NN . PRP$ NN VBD VBN IN JJ NNS VBG NNP POS NNS . DT NN NNP VBD DT JJ NN : DT NN VBD VBN . '' 
DT VBD , DT VBD DT JJ NN WDT VBD DT NN NN , RB JJR NN MD VB VBN TO VB IN JJ NN VBD JJ . JJ NN VBZ RB IN NN . VBG PRP$ NN NN RP RB JJ IN JJ JJ NN MD VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN , VBG DT NN NN CC NN IN NNS IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . IN NN IN NN NN CC JJ NN NN : CC WP VBZ NN NNS JJ IN NN CC VBZ JJR IN CD : NNS VBP TO VB DT NN IN VBG JJ NN . RB , NN IN JJ NN MD VB VBG JJ NN RB CC RB DT NN . NNS MD VB NN CC NNS . NNS MD VB DT NN IN NN NNS , RB CD JJR RB . EX VBZ DT JJ VBD NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN CC DT JJ NN CC NN . IN NN , JJ NNS VBP VBG DT NN IN NN CC NN . 
NNP NNP VBD JJ NNS VBP JJ IN DT NN , WDT VBD VBN , CC DT NN , WDT VBD RB , CC IN JJ NNS WP VBD IN DT NN CC DT WP VBD RB . '' NN , TO VB RB JJ , PRP VBP TO VB JJR JJ NN TO VB DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN RB , DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ IN JJ NNS . CC PRP VBD PRP VBD IN IN CD IN PRP$ CD NNS VBD NNS IN NN NN . CD IN DT VBZ NNP NNP NNP , CD , DT RB JJ NN IN DT JJ NN WP VBZ PRP JJ , IN JJ NNS VBD IN PRP$ JJ NN . RB DT NN , NNP NNP NNP , CD , VBZ PRP$ NNS IN DT NN , NN CC VBG PRP$ NN CC VBG PRP TO VB IN JJ NNS . PRP VBD IN DT CD IN PRP$ NNS VBD NN NNS CC DT VBZ IN DT NN RB VBD NNS WP VBD VBN VBN . 
NNP NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNP JJ NN CC VBD TO VB PRP$ NN IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBD WRB DT NN VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBD JJ IN DT NN . NNPS VBD PRP JJ NN IN NN IN DT NN NN , DT NN VBD IN RB DT JJ NNS IN DT JJ NNS IN NNP NNP , NNP . NNP RB VBD PRP IN DT NN IN CD , WRB DT NN VBD RB DT NN , CC PRP VBD DT NN IN DT JJ CD NNS IN RB VBG VBN IN DT JJ CD . NNS VBP RB VB NN NNS , RB NNS RB MD VB RB JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN IN VBG NN IN DT NNS IN PRP$ JJ NNS . DT NN NN VBZ JJ JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NN VBD JJR IN DT JJ IN NN . VBD DT NN VBD DT JJ NN , NNS VBP PRP MD VB VBN DT CD NNS . RB , DT NN IN DT NN VBN IN NNS IN CD VBD VBN IN CD NNS . PRP VBZ DT NN IN DT JJ NN . 
DT VBZ WRB NNS WP VBP JJ NN VBP VBG TO VB DT NN IN JJ NNS CC NNS VBG IN NN CD . VB MD VB VBN DT JJ IN NN NNS CC NNS IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT RBS RB VBN JJ NN IN NN NN : NNP MD NNP NNP , CD , WP JJ NN IN DT NN NNS : VBD JJ IN DT DT NN RB VBZ NNS RB JJ . PRP$ NN VBZ JJ , IN PRP$ NN VBD RB VBN IN NN , CC IN NNS VBD IN PRP VBD IN JJ NN . JJR NNS VBP VBG NN NNS IN RB IN , CC DT NNS VBP VBG RB RBR RB IN PRP$ JJ NNS MD VB . DT CD NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP VBD IN JJR IN NN IN DT JJ NN NN VBD VBN VBN IN JJ NN VBG TO PRP$ NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN POS JJ NN IN NN CC JJ NN NN . CD IN PRP VBD PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN VBD RB VBN PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
DT NN NNS MD RB VB VBN RB JJ VBD PRP VBN JJ IN DT CD JJ NN NN VBD RB RB VBN . DT NN VBZ RB IN DT NN IN NN NN , CC IN DT NN IN CD NNS VBN IN NN IN DT NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN DT CD POS . IN CD , PRP$ NNS , NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , VBD DT NN IN WDT PRP VBD , FW JJ NNS MD RB VB IN NN , JJS MD RB VB NN , CC IN DT WP VBP VB NN , JJS MD VB PRP . '' DT NN , NNP NNP IN NNP VBD , VBZ IN VBN DT RBS RB VBN NN IN NN NN . NNP NNP , WP VBZ RB DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD DT NN VBD RB JJ '' IN DT NN . CC NN VBD DT JJ NN IN NN VBD NN VBD RB JJ TO VB , '' PRP VBD . CC VBD IN , IN WDT NN , PRP VBD RB . '' 
NNS VBD DT NN TO PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP . '' VBP NN WDT VBD JJ , CC PRP VBP DT NN WDT MD VB PRP . '' CC IN NNP NNP NNP , RB DT NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS VBD IN NNS WP VBD NN IN NN RB VBD JJR CC , IN JJ , VBD RBR NN NNS , WDT MD VB VBG NN NN . PRP$ NN , VBN IN CD , VBD JJ NN . CC NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD PRP DT VBG NN : VBP RB VB RB IN PRP VBP PRP MD VB . '' NNP NNP VBD IN NN VBD DT RB RB JJ . VB PDT DT NNS IN JJ VBG VBN NN , EX VBZ RB DT RB JJ NN IN NNS IN JJ NNS , NN NNS , NN NNS VBG PRP VBZ VB IN IN PRP , '' '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NNS VBD IN JJ NNS , CC DT NNS VBD , '' VBP RB VB NN TO NN . '' '' 
DT WP VBD JJR IN CD NNS IN DT JJ NN VBD DT JJ NN IN VBG CC VBG DT NN NN IN DT WP MD RB VB DT NN IN DT , CC DT NN VBD JJ IN NN . WDT VBD TO DT JJ NN . MD VBG NNS TO VB RB CC RBR VBP PRP$ NN RB JJ PRP MD RB VB . NNP NNP NNP , VBG NN IN DT NN IN NN , NN CC NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , VBZ PRP MD . DT JJ NN NN IN PRP VBD VB NN IN , IN NN , NNS MD VB RBR , VB PRP$ NN CC JJR RB NN IN DT NN . RB PRP VBZ TO VB DT NN TO VB IN JJ NN VBZ NNS VBP PRP$ NN TO VB CC VB PRP$ NN . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP VBZ VBN . PRP MD VB DT RB JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , VBG IN PRP$ NNS VBP RB VBN VBN RP . CC , PRP VBD , IN NN MD VB RB CD NN TO CD NN JJR NNS JJ , JJ VBP JJ NNS MD VB VBN . '' 
TO NNS , DT VBZ VBZ RB JJ . CC DT NN , DT NNS CC DT NN VBP RB JJ . PRP VBP IN DT JJ NN , NN '' ( NNP NNP ) , IN DT NN , NNP NNP , WP$ NN VBZ IN JJ NN . NNS WP VBP VBN DT NN VBP IN NN , NNP NNP VBZ VBN TO VB DT NN IN NN IN DT NN NN WDT VBZ RB JJ CC VBZ NNS RB JJ CC NN IN PRP VBP PRP VBP JJ VBG . WRB MD DT NN , NN WP VBZ RB VBN VBN IN DT NN CC NNS IN NN , VB PRP RB RB . MD VB PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN PRP RB IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN CC DT NN IN NN IN NNP CC DT NN IN DT NN RB . VB VBZ DT NN , DT NNS , DT NNS CC NNS WDT VBP IN DT JJ NN IN NN , '' NNP NNP , WP VBD NN '' IN DT JJ NN NNP , VBD IN DT NN NN . CC VBD VBN . PRP VBD RB VBN . '' 
NNS VBP RB RB VBG RP TO VB NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP POS NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP . EX VBP DT NN JJR NNS IN NNS . '' NN IN DT NN VBZ IN DT NNS IN NN VBP RB VBN RB VBN . IN DT NN IN RBS JJ NNS VBZ DT NN VBZ JJ , CD NNS VBP VBN VBN IN NNP . EX VBP RB JJ NNS WDT VBP NN NNS VBP VBN RB TO VB IN NNS . CD IN DT RBS JJ NNS IN IN JJ NN VBZ RB WRB JJ VBZ VBN IN NN IN DT JJ NN NNS IN DT NNS WP VBP DT NN , '' DT JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP VBD . DT CD NNS IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS IN JJ JJ NN NN NN NN VBG IN NNS IN NN . DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP VBZ NNS RB IN NN NNS IN VBN NNS CC NN NN . 
NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , DT NN NNS NNP WP VBZ VBN NN WDT MD VB NN NNS TO VB NN , VBZ VBN DT JJ NN . CD NNS CC JJR RB , PRP VBP RB VB EX VBD RB IN DT NN IN NN CC NN NN , '' PRP VBZ . '' VBD CD NN DT NNS MD VB IN IN DT NN TO VB JJ NNS . RB PRP VBZ VBN IN JJ NNS . '' DT NNP NNP , WDT IN NNP VBZ VBN DT NN IN NN NN CC NN NN IN NNS , VBZ RB VBD DT NN . CD NNS IN DT NN VBD DT IN NN , '' VBZ NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN NNP . RB , PRP VBP VBN TO VB CC VB NN . IN DT IN PRP WP VBP IN DT JJ NN NN , CC VB VBG JJ NN NNS : IN NNS VB NNP . POS , DT NN VBZ DT RBS JJ NN TO VB NNS VB JJ NN : PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB PRP MD VB VBN RP NNS . '' 
PRP MD VB RP DT NNS IN DT NNP NN VBP NNS IN DT NN IN NN , RB VB PRP$ NNS IN PRP , IN VBG RB VBN IN PRP$ NN VBD RB RB VBN VBN . CC NNP NNP VBD IN NNS RB VBP JJ IN DT NN VBG VBN IN NNS IN PRP$ NN , CC NNS IN JJ NN MD VB JJ TO VB . NNP NN NNS , IN NN , NN IN NNS , RB NNS , CC NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD IN DT NN WP VBD VBN PRP$ NN VBD VBN PRP DT JJ NN CC NN . IN CD , IN NN , DT NN VBN NNP NNP VBD PRP$ NN NNP NNP . PRP VBD VBN VBN IN NNP NNP , RB DT NN , WP VBD PRP$ NN VBD NNP NNP . JJ , JJ NNS VBD NNS IN NNP NNP NNP , '' VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN , '' VBZ NNP '' CC NNP NNP , '' NNP NNP VBD , VBG , PRP VBZ RB JJ WRB PRP VBP DT NN NN IN DT NN . '' 
NN VBZ DT JJ JJ NN . IN PRP$ CD NNS IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , PRP VBP RB VBN DT NN IN DT , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN NN NN IN DT NN POS NNP IN NNP NNP . CC DT JJ NN , CD NNPS NN IN NN . DT NN IN PRP$ NNS VBZ TO VB JJ DT NN VBZ TO DT IN JJS NN IN JJ NNS . '' NNP NNP , CD , CC PRP$ NN NNP , CD , VBD DT NN IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN . VBG DT NN IN DT NN , PRP VBP RBR JJ , '' VBD PRP$ NN , NNP NNPS IN NNP NNP . '' NNP POS NN PRP VBP JJ IN VBG DT NNS VBP PRP$ NNS CC VBG PRP NN WRB PRP VBP JJ , CC PRP VBP RB VBG PRP VBP VBD DT NN . PRP VBD JJ PRP VBD DT NNS IN PRP VBP IN DT NN . '' NNP NNP VBD PRP$ NN IN NNP VBZ IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ NNP CC NNP CC NNS IN NNP . NNS TO VB DT NN IN NN VBD IN NN . DT NNP . VBD VBG TO VB JJ NN IN DT JJ JJ NN , NNP NNP , CC NN PRP WRB VBN , DT NN WDT MD VB CD TO CD NNS . RB , DT NN VBD JJ NN NNS TO VB DT JJ NNS CC NNS IN PRP$ NNS IN NN TO VB DT NN NN . 
IN DT NN NN IN NN , DT NNP NN IN JJ NNS , JJ NNP NNP '' VBD IN NNP NNP VBZ JJ JJ NN IN DT NN ( JJ CD NNP POS ) . '' JJ NNP VBZ DT NNP IN NNP NNP NN , VBG CC JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . CC PRP VBP RB VB NNP NNP VBZ RB , PRP VBP VBD CD JJ NNS WP MD VB TO VB PRP . DT JJ NN POS JJ IN JJ NNS . PRP VBP JJ PRP VBZ RB VB TO DT NN CC VB RB IN DT NNP . CD NNP VBZ VBN IN DT IN DT JJS , JJS , JJS NN PRP MD RB VB , '' PRP VBD . '' VB TO DT NNP . NN CC PRP MD VB WP PRP VBP VBG IN . '' NNS IN NNP NNP VBP PRP RB VBP DT VBG NN IN JJ NNS VBG IN JJ JJ NNS WDT VBP TO VB NN CC NN NN IN NN IN VBG . DT NNS VBP JJ , CC PRP$ JJ NN NNS VBP VBN . 
IN DT NN , IN , DT NN MD VB DT NN RB IN NNS VBG NN NN MD VB NN IN DT NN . DT NN MD VB , VB , NN CC VB DT NN TO VB RP JJR NN . IN PRP MD VB IN DT NN , PRP VBP JJ TO VB JJ TO VB RP JJR IN PRP IN PRP MD IN RB DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . TO NN , EX VBZ VBN RB CD NN NN VBG JJ NN TO NN NN , CC PRP VBZ RB JJ , IN CD NNS . JJ VBG NNS VBP JJ TO VB IN PRP VBP JJ CC JJ NNS TO VB CD NNS . NNS IN DT NN , VBN IN DT NNP IN NNP CC DT NNP IN NNP , VBD VBN IN NNP IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP . DT NNS VBD VBN DT JJ CC NN NNS . IN CD JJ NNS , CD VBD VBN IN DT JJ CC NN NNS , CC JJ VBD CD WDT VBD VBN IN NN , CC NN VBD CD VBN IN JJ . NN NNS VBD VBN IN DT NNS CC VBD JJ IN DT NN . NNP , EX VBD DT NN IN DT NN IN DT CD NNS . 
NNP NNP VBZ NNS VBP DT JJ CC JJ TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN CC CD WDT VBZ CD NNS . PRP VBZ VBG TO PRP WRB JJ PRP VBZ IN NNS TO VB RB IN JJR NNS VBP JJR NNS , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNPS IN NNP NNP , VBZ RB RBR JJ . PRP VBZ PRP VBZ RB JJ IN NNS TO VB IN WP PRP VBZ DT NN POS JJ NN . '' JJ JJ JJ NN VBZ CD NN NNS IN NN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . CC NN CC PRP$ NN VBP RB JJ DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS CC NNS . '' EX VBP NNS PRP RB VBD TO VB , NNP NNP VBD , IN NN NNS CC NNS CC NN NNS . NNP NN CC JJ NN NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS , RB IN JJ NN IN NNS VBZ VBG . 
IN PRP VBD IN NNP VBD VBN IN VBG DT NN , PRP VBD DT NN POS NNS VBD TO PDT DT NNS VBN IN DT NN CC DT NNS CC IN DT JJ NN VBD NNS VBN TO VB PRP$ NNS . JJ NN NN VBD DT JJ JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . VB DT NNP NNP NNP VBD RB VB DT VBD DT JJ CC JJ NN , PRP VBD RB VB TO VB PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN NNP NNP CC DT JJ JJ NNS VBD VBN IN PRP VBD JJ IN WRB DT NNS VBD RB VBN , PRP VBD DT JJ NN VBD RB VBN IN JJ IN DT NNS , RB IN PRP VBD VBN VBN '' IN NNP CC PRP$ NNS . '' NN PRP VBP TO VB PRP$ NN , '' PRP VBD . 
NNP NNP VBD DT NN , VBN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN NNP NNP . IN NNP , PRP VBD IN NNP NNP VBD VBN NN '' CC NNP NNP RB VBD PRP . PRP VBD PRP VBD NNS , CC VBD IN PRP$ NNS VBD VBN IN JJ NNS . DT NN VBD DT JJ NNS VBN . IN RB DT NNS , DT NNS RB VBD NNP NNP POS NNS : PRP VBD VBN JJ NNS CC NNP NNP VBD PRP IN JJ NNS . MD PRP VB VBN . NNP NNP POS NN VBD DT NN IN NN NN CD DT RB JJ NN , WDT DT JJ NN VBZ RB VBN RB . '' VBZ VBN IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN NN . CC JJ TO VB DT JJ NNS , CC PRP VBD RB VB VBN TO VB TO DT JJ NN . CC DT VBZ RB IN PRP VBP NNS . '' NN , PRP VBD , VBZ VBN IN NN . CC , NNP NNP VBD , '' IN JJ . IN PRP$ NN , RB RB , CC DT VBZ NN DT NN VBZ TO VB . '' 
RBS VBP TO VB JJ NNS IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , WP VBD IN PRP$ NN VBD PRP MD VB IN DT NN . NNP NNP NNP VBD DT NN WP VBZ RB DT JJ , CC DT NN VBP CD JJ , JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBZ DT NN POS NN TO NNP . DT NN IN JJ NN , PRP VBZ IN NNS WP VBP DT NN IN JJ NNS , NNS VBD NNS CC VBZ RP DT JJ NN NNS IN PRP$ NNS . '' NN NN , CC PRP VBP TO VB PRP , '' PRP VBD . NNP TO DT JJ NNS IN NNP VBZ JJ IN PRP$ NNS IN NNP IN EX VBP DT JJ NN RB . IN NNP , NNP NNP VBZ NNP NNP DT NN IN NNS PRP VBD IN DT NN CC NN IN NNP WP VBP IN NN , IN WDT PRP$ NNS VBP JJ CC JJ . WP VBZ PRP$ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , VBG TO DT JJ NN WP VBZ CD VBN NNS IN CD NN , CD IN DT JJ . IN PRP$ JJR NN , PRP VBZ VBN WDT VBP RB DT JJ NNS RB . DT CD VBP IN IN NNS IN PRP VBP RP DT JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN NN . 
CC DT JJ NN VBZ IN NN NN RB VBZ IN DT NN JJ TO DT IN DT JJ NN NN NN . DT VBZ TO VB , DT NN , WDT VBZ DT NN NN , RB VBZ CD JJ NNS IN NN : IN VBG NN , VBG NN CC VBG NN . IN NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN , RB DT JJ MD VB TO VB JJ IN DT NN , WDT VBZ IN NNS IN NNS VBP VBN IN DT JJ JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBD DT . CC JJ NN VBZ IN NN NN VBZ RBR JJ TO VB DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN NN , '' PRP VBD PRP . CC NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP CC CD IN DT NN POS JJ NNS IN NN , VBD : WP VBZ RB JJ . DT NN VBZ IN DT JJ IN DT JJ NNS IN NN . PRP MD RB VB RP DT NN NN IN NN NNP , CC DT JJ VBZ JJ IN DT NN NN NN . '' 
IN DT JJ CD POS , NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NNP NNP VBD VBN TO VB NNP , DT JJ NN VBN IN CD . DT NN , JJ NN JJ NN , VBZ VBG DT NN NN IN DT NN TO DT NN NN , WDT VBZ RB VBN IN DT JJ NN . IN JJ NNS , CD NNS RB NNP NNP VBD DT JJ VBD NN IN DT NNP NNPS . DT JJ VBD DT NN RB , WRB NNP NNP VBD IN JJ NNS TO VB NN NNS IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . IN JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBZ RB VBN IN DT RB NNS WDT MD VB JJ TO RB VB DT JJ JJ NN NN NN IN JJ NN . NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ JJ NN , VBD VBN TO VB DT JJ TO VB RB IN PRP VBD VBN JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS VBD VBN . JJ NN , IN PRP VBZ VBN , MD VB RB DT NN CC NN NNS IN DT NN POS JJ JJ NN , WDT RB MD VB VBN TO VB WDT NNS VBP VBN IN VBG . IN PRP MD VB IN DT NN POS JJ JJ NN , DT NN MD RB VB PRP . 
VBG NNS IN NN NNS IN NNS CC NN NNS MD RB VB JJ IN DT JJ NN . IN CD , DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBD VBG RB TO CD NNS IN NN IN NN IN JJ , DT JJ JJ JJ NN IN NN NN NN IN JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBD IN IN DT JJ CD POS PRP VBD DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS CC DT TO PRP$ NN , PRP RB VBD TO NN . VBN IN NN , DT NN IN DT NNP . VBD IN DT NN VBD CD IN DT NNS VBG JJ JJ NN '' IN NNS CC IN PRP VBD VBN IN EX VBZ DT NN IN NNS TO VB VBN . '' IN DT NN , JJ NNS VBP RB VBN IN JJ NNS CC VBN '' IN DT NNP , PRP VBD . NNP NNP VBD IN IN NNS IN NNP VBP RB RBR RB JJ , JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS VBZ DT NN CC NN IN JJ NN NN , IN DT CD VBG PRP$ NN , IN NN NN . 
DT NNS VBP RP IN EX VBP NN IN NNS TO VB IN DT NN NN VBZ RB RB VBD DT NN IN NN . IN JJ , IN PRP VBP IN DT NN IN DT NN VBP WDT VBD IN DT JJ CD POS , CC IN DT VBD NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN . ( JJ CD NNS , DT RBS JJ NN IN DT NN , RB VBD RB IN DT NN . ) PRP VBP IN JJ JJ NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS CC JJ NN TO VB JJ NNS , CC IN IN NN IN PRP DT , DT NN IN NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ VBN VBG IN CD NNS . PRP$ NN NNS VBP VBN VBG , CC PRP VBP VBN VBG RBR , CC RB DT NN IN NN NN VBZ RB VBN IN MD VB VBN . WP VBZ RB JJ , '' NNP VBZ . '' VBZ IN NN RB JJ VBZ VBG . '' DT NN IN DT JJ NN MD VB VBN NNP CD , WDT VBZ WRB PRP VBZ VBN TO IN NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP WP VBZ DT JJ NN NN IN NNP POS NNP NNP , CC WP VBP PRP$ JJ NN IN DT JJ NN TO PRP$ NNS . NNP CD VBZ DT NN IN WRB NNS VBP NN CC NN NN CC IN NN JJ NN CC NN . DT VBZ JJ NN , NNP VBZ , WDT VBZ DT NN IN NNS , CC PRP VBZ RB VBN JJ IN DT JJ JJ NN VBD IN DT CD POS IN NNS RB RB JJ IN DT NN IN NN IN NN CC NN NN . IN DT NN , NNP CD VBD RB JJ , CC IN PRP VBD VBN . RB IN DT NN VBZ VBG JJ , PRP VBZ TO VB DT NN NN IN JJ NN . 
VBG NN , IN , VBZ RB RB DT NN IN VBG CC VBG RP DT JJS NNS . IN NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS , DT NNS VBP DT NN TO VB DT RBR JJ , CC RBR JJ , NN WDT RB VBZ DT JJ JJ NN : DT NNS WDT , TO VBG NNS , DT NNS VBP . IN NNP IN NNP , DT NNS VBP DT NN IN JJ NN IN RB VBZ DT JJ NNS DT NN DT NN VBZ . DT NNP NNS VBP RB VBG PRP$ NNS , VBG IN DT JJ NNS IN NN IN PRP VBP VBN , RB RB CC RB . DT NNP NN VBZ RB DT JJ TO VB NNS TO VB NN NN . DT JJ CC VBG NN IN JJ NN NNS VBP VBG TO VB NN . JJ NNS RB VBP JJ NNS POS NN NNS IN JJ NN . CC CD NNS IN , DT NNP NN NN VBZ RB VBN RB RB IN NN IN VBG DT JJ NN IN VBG NNS JJ IN PRP$ NN . 
IN DT NN CC DT NNP MD VB NN , CC IN NN VBZ WRB NN NNS VBP DT NN , WRB VBP RB JJ NNS VBN IN PRP IN NNS . DT VBP , CC PRP VBD DT NN . WP VBD , IN DT JJ CD NNS , VBZ IN NN VBD DT JJ NN IN NN , CC DT WP VBD VBN TO PRP VBD PRP VBG IN DT NN NN . IN DT JJ , VBG NN IN NN , RB , DT NNS VBP PRP$ NN . JJ NNP IN NNP VBZ RB VB DT NN VBG NN NN , '' NNP NNP , NN IN DT JJ , JJ , JJ NN , VBD PRP . PRP VBD IN TO VB , RB , IN NNP . VBZ VB VBG WRB JJ NN NN NNS VBP . '' RB , DT NN VBZ DT NN VBN JJ NNP NNP : NNP NNP CC NNP NNP . '' TO DT WP VBP VBG NN . JJS NNS IN NN NN MD VB NN NNS . DT CD NNP NNP NNP NN , IN NN , VBD DT NN IN DT NNS IN DT NN CC NN . CC DT NNP . NN VBZ RB IN DT . PRP$ NN IN NN NN VBZ IN VBZ JJ NN VBZ TO VB DT NN JJ NN . '' CD NN IN DT NN NN NN , PRP VBZ , VBZ TO VB CD JJ NN . '' DT NN IN DT NNP VBZ NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS ( PRP$ CD NN NN IN VBG NN , PRP$ NN ) CC VBZ RB IN DT NN IN NN NNS , JJ IN WDT NN NNS VBP . 
IN PRP$ JJ JJ NN , NN NNS VBD NN IN DT NN NN IN NN VBD VBN VBN IN DT NN VBN TO DT NN VBG CD NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN WP VBD IN NN NN JJ NN . DT NN , VBN IN DT NN IN NNP , NNP , IN JJ NNP , VBD VBN IN DT NNP NNP NN NN IN CD NNS IN DT JJ NNS VBD TO CD NNP NNPS NNS , DT NNS VBD . DT NNS VBP VBN TO VB VBN DT NN IN DT NNS IN IN JJS CD NNS CC DT NN IN DT NN IN NNS . IN DT NN VBZ RB VB DT NN NNS IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNS , PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNS IN JJ NN VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP , NNP , MD VB VBN DT NN IN DT NNP NN POS NN . 
CC , NNP NNP VBD , '' VBP PRP VBZ JJ TO VB IN PRP VBZ DT JJ NN TO VB DT NNS TO DT NNP . NN IN JJR IN CD . '' PRP MD RB VB DT JJ NN TO VB , NN NN NNS VBD . NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , VBD , '' JJ NN IN NNS VBZ JJS NNS RB TO CD . '' IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB IN RB VBN TO CD , PRP VBP TO VB DT JJ NN IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD , NNP RB MD RB VB PRP RB . '' CD NN , PRP VBD , VBZ TO VB DT NN IN NN CC NN , DT NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN NN VBN IN DT JJ NN . CC RB RB , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP , JJ NNS MD RB VB JJ TO VB DT NNP . NN IN CD . CD RB VBP RB VBG TO VB NNS WP RB IN NN NN MD RB VB PRP$ NNP . NN IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
RB , RB , DT NN VBZ JJ , CC NNP CC NNP VBP RB DT JJ NNS VBG IN JJ JJ NNS , IN JJ NNS , MD TO VB VBN IN NN NNS . NNS VBG DT JJ NN IN VBG NNP POS NN , IN NN , VBD DT NN NN NN : NNS WP VBD NNS VBN IN PRP$ NNS TO VB DT JJ NN , IN WDT JJ NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN : IN DT RB VBN NN VBN JJ NNP . DT NN VBD DT JJ NN NN , IN DT NN NN IN DT NNS WP RB VBD DT JJ NNS VBD RB RBR . '' VBZ RB DT NN , '' NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD NNP NN . UH , IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN , PRP MD VB TO VB DT NN NN NN . '' DT NNS VBP , IN NN , IN DT JJ NN IN NN NN VBZ VBN IN JJ NN NNS CC NNS WP VBP JJ NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ IN PRP MD VB IN PRP . CC RB , IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS , DT MD RB VB DT JJ NN . IN JJ NN VBZ NN , PRP VBZ NN IN IN DT VBG NN IN NN IN DT NN IN DT NN NN IN JJ . RB JJ NNS VBP RB DT RBS JJ NN IN DT NN NN WDT VBZ RB RB VBN VBN , CC RB , IN DT NN IN NN NNP NNP VBZ VBN , VBZ TO VB PRP$ NN IN JJ NN . '' 
NNP NNP NNP , CD , IN NNP , VBZ PRP$ NN IN CD NN CC RB VBZ RB JJ NN IN CD IN NN . CC PRP VBZ RB VB IN DT NN , NN CC NN . PRP VBZ DT NNP NN NN VBN IN JJ NNP CC JJ NNS IN NN TO DT JJ NN IN NNS CC JJ NNS . VBN TO PRP$ NN VBZ DT JJ NN WDT VBZ JJ NNS , DT NNPS POS NNP NNP CC JJ NN . PRP RB VBZ CD NNS IN NN , DT DT JJ NN : PRP VBZ PRP TO VB VB DT NN IN VBG CD NNS IN NNS DT NN , TO NNS , NN NNS , NNS CC NNS . CC , UH , UH , PRP$ NN VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN NN . NNP NNP VBZ NN NNS . CC PRP$ NNS VBP VBG . IN CD , DT NNP NN VBD NNP NNP NNS IN VBG CD NN NNS , RB IN CD IN CD , VBG TO JJ NNS . RB , DT NN VBD CD NN , IN NNP VBG NNS IN DT NN IN JJR IN CD CD NN NNS IN CD , VBN IN JJR IN CD CD IN CD . 
NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN , RB VBZ CD NNS CC JJ NNS . '' PRP RB VBD DT NNS IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN IN VBG CC NN MD VB JJ IN , '' PRP VBZ . DT NN , NNP NNP , CD , VBD TO VB NN NN . PRP VBD IN CD NNS IN NN VBN IN PRP$ NN CC VBZ PRP VBZ VBN IN DT NNS . IN DT JJ CD NNS , RB , IN NN VBZ RB RB VBN , VBZ VBN DT VBG JJ NN NN IN DT NN , IN CD NNS JJ NN . VB CD TO CD VBP DT RBS NNS . NNP VBD DT JJ NN , CC NNS VBD RP CD NN IN DT NN JJ NN , VBG TO DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP NNP . JJS NNS VBP DT NN IN CD NNS VBN . IN DT JJ JJ NNS , DT NN VBZ VBN NN , IN NN IN JJR NNS IN NN VBP VBN . JJS NNS MD VB TO VB IN DT NN CC VB JJ NN IN CD NNS CC RB . VBG RB VBZ RB IN IN DT NN : NN CC DT NN RB JJ IN CD NNS . 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC JJ NNS , WP VBZ VBG DT NN IN NNP NNP TO VB DT NN IN NN NN , VBD IN DT NN NN IN NNP IN DT NN MD VB DT NN IN PRP . CD IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ JJ CC JJ TO VB , '' PRP VBD , IN VBG TO VB DT NNS IN NNP POS NN IN DT NN . CC JJS NN VBZ IN DT NN . '' IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NN VBP VBN VBN RB , DT NN IN NNP POS JJ CC JJ NN VBZ PRP JJ DT NN MD VB RB . NNP VBZ VBN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS , RB , IN VBG RB TO VB JJ NNS WDT VBP VBN . WRB NNP VBD IN NNP CD IN PRP VBD VBN RB NN IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNP , JJ NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN CC VBD DT VBG NNS IN DT JJ NN . 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP WP VBD NN IN DT NN , VBD , '' DT NN VBD PRP VB DT NN IN PRP VBD IN JJ NNP '' DT JJ JJ NN IN NNP POS NN IN JJ NNP , VBN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP IN CD , VBD CC DT NN NN ( NNS WP VBD DT JJ NN NN ) CC DT NN NN ( NNS WP VBD RB VB JJ NNP ) IN NN . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN NNP . NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , CC DT NN IN NNP , WP VBD DT NN , VBD DT NN VBD VBN IN NN IN PRP VBD '' JJ NN IN NN IN DT RB VBN NN . '' NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP CD IN NNS IN NN IN RB JJ NNS VBD DT NN POS NN . DT NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP , IN VBZ DT NN PRP VBD , NNP NNP NNP . 
POS RB VBP TO VB DT NN IN VBG IN NNS PRP VBP IN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN NNP NNP CC DT JJ NN TO NNP NNP NNP . CD NN , PRP VBD , MD VB TO VB JJ NNS , NN DT NN VBZ VBN . DT NN MD VB TO VB NNS IN IN NN NNS , IN NN NNS MD RB VB VBN TO VB DT NN IN NN . CC JJ NN VBZ NNS IN VBG VBN IN NNS IN DT NN , CC IN RB DT NN MD VB VBN , VBG PDT DT NN IN NNS VBN CC DT NN IN DT NN . RB NNS WP VBD PRP VBD RB VB JJ NN MD VB JJ RB VBD DT NN MD RB VB VBN . IN DT JJ NN , RB JJ VBZ VBN IN WDT NN VBZ RBS IN DT NNS MD VB VBN JJ , PRP VBD . NNP NNP NNP NNP 
RB , RB , NNS VBP DT NN IN NN VBZ VBZ JJ TO VB , IN DT NN IN NNS CD CC JJR , RB IN CD CD , VBZ VBN TO VB IN DT JJ CD NNS . NNP NNP , IN CD CD , NNS VBP IN DT NN IN NN IN NNS IN NN CD . JJ JJ NNS VBP VBG NN TO RBR NNS IN DT NN WDT JJ NN CC NN NN . IN NN TO DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP VBZ NNP , NNP CC NNP , CC NNS NNP NNP NNP VBZ VBN IN NNP NNP . NNP NNP RB VBZ PRP$ NN IN DT NNS . VBG JJ NNPS , VBN IN NNP , VBD VBN IN CD IN NNP NNP NNP TO VB JJ NN TO NNS IN NNP NNP . IN DT JJ CD NNS , DT NN VBZ VBN IN NN , VBG TO NNP NNP , JJ VBG NN , CC RB VBZ PRP$ NNS TO NNS IN NNP , NNP , NNP CC NNP NNS . CD IN DT VBG NN , PRP VBP VBN CD JJ NN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
EX VBP RB JJ NNS IN DT NN '' : DT JJ NN IN NNS IN DT NN NN NN : CC VBP JJ TO VB NNP TO VB NN PRP , '' VBZ NNP NNP , DT JJ NNP WP VBZ IN DT NNP NNP NN . CC RB VBD RB VB . '' PRP VBD JJ NN , CC NNP VBD VBG IN DT JJ NN IN NNP POS NNP NNP , DT NN VBD PDT DT NN RB IN NN . PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN TO DT NNS NN IN NNP NNP TO VB DT NN WRB NNP VBD IN CD . IN DT NN , RB , NNP POS NN VBD VBN IN DT NN : RB , IN WRB DT NN IN PRP$ NN NN MD VB RP IN DT NNP FW NNP . NNP , DT NN IN DT JJ NN WP VBZ TO VB NNS IN CD IN DT NN POS RBS JJ NNS IN NN , VBG IN NNP NNP ( JJ NN , VBN NN CC NN NN , CD ) , NNP NNP ( JJ NN , CD ) , JJ NNP ( JJ NN NN , CD ) . CC NNP VBD DT NN IN PRP$ NN MD VB DT RBR JJ NN , IN JJS IN PRP$ NNS . '' RBR VB DT NNS , IN DT IN PRP VBP RB VBG TO VB PRP , '' PRP VBD , VBG IN TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT CD NN , WRB NNP , VBG IN NNP , VBD VBN TO VB NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN TO VB NNS IN NN . CD IN DT NNS , IN , MD RB RB VB . NNP VBZ JJ IN PRP : WRB MD PRP . '' 
DT NN , WDT VBD CD NNS IN CD NNS , VBN NNS VBG CD NNS IN NNP IN DT VBG CD NNS , DT JJ NN . DT IN DT JJR NN VBD DT CD NN JJR NN IN DT NN NN CC DT CD NN JJR NN IN NN . CC DT JJ NN IN NN NN CC NN IN DT JJR NN VBD RB VB IN DT JJR NN IN NN IN DT , IN JJ JJR NNS VBD IN JJ NNS IN DT JJR NN . IN DT , CD NNS VBG CD NNS VBD , VBN IN CD NNS VBG CD NNS . IN DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP WDT VBD DT NN , NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD IN NNS MD VB JJ IN VBG NNP NNS . DT JJR NN NN VBZ DT NN IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD IN JJ JJ NNS IN JJ NNP VBD RB DT NN IN NN . CC VBP RB JJ IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . 
NNP NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNP JJ NN CC VBD TO VB PRP$ NN IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBD WRB DT NN VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBD JJ IN DT NN . NNPS VBD PRP JJ NN IN NN IN DT NN NN , DT NN VBD IN RB DT JJ NNS IN DT JJ NNS IN NNP NNP , NNP . NNP RB VBD PRP IN DT NN IN CD , WRB DT NN VBD RB DT NN , CC PRP VBD DT NN IN DT JJ CD NNS IN RB VBG VBN IN DT JJ CD . NNS VBP RB VB NN NNS , RB NNS RB MD VB RB JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN IN VBG NN IN DT NNS IN PRP$ JJ NNS . DT NN NN VBZ JJ JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NN VBD JJR IN DT JJ IN NN . VBD DT NN VBD DT JJ NN , NNS VBP PRP MD VB VBN DT CD NNS . RB , DT NN IN DT NN VBN IN NNS IN CD VBD VBN IN CD NNS . PRP VBZ DT NN IN DT JJ NN . 
IN DT WP VBD VBG , DT NN MD VB VBN DT NN IN WP VBD VBN VBG IN IN DT NNP . IN DT NN POS NN NNS VBD IN NN IN JJ NN IN NN NNP IN DT NN IN CD , CC IN PRP VBD RBR VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN POS JJ NN , JJ NN MD VB VBN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP CC NNP NN IN DT NNP . TO VB DT NN . CC CD NN IN DT NNP . POS JJ NNP NNP NNP NNP VBD NNS : NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ JJ WP NNP NNP VBN TO VB DT NN IN CD . ( IN DT NN IN NNS POS NNS , WP VBD VBN IN NNP NNP POS NN IN PRP VBD NNP IN DT NN IN WRB PRP VBD NNS IN PRP$ NN NN , PRP VBD VBN IN NN IN DT NN TO JJ NN . ) NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD IN IN NN NNP VBD RB JJ , PRP MD VB JJ NN IN NNS . NNP . NN NNS VBD NN VBG IN DT NNS VBD JJ : JJ NNS VBD DT NN IN JJ NN WRB NN NNP VBD JJ TO PRP , CC DT DT JJ NNP IN NNPS CC DT NNP IN NNP NNP VBD DT NN TO JJ NN . NNP VBD IN DT NN VBD IN DT NN POS NN : IN DT NNP . POS NN VBD RB JJ TO NN CC VBD RB VB TO NNS IN IN DT NN MD VB TO NNS VBG JJR NN . RB DT NN NN RB VBD IN NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN NNS IN DT NNP , VBD RB VBN DT NN IN VBG DT NN JJ IN DT NN MD VB TO VB JJ NNS JJ IN DT NN VBG IN DT JJ NN POS NN WDT MD VB NNS TO VB JJ NNS VBN IN DT NN IN NN NNP . '' IN NNP CD , DT NNP . VBD DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS CC VBD DT NN , VBG DT IN DT NNS WDT NNP NNP VBD VBN . 
NNP NN , NNP POS JJ NNS VBP VBN JJ NNS IN NN CC NN NNS , NNP NNP CC JJ NNS VBP , VBG DT JJ NN IN NN NN CC NN . CC MD VB , FW MD VB TO VB DT NN IN NNS TO VB JJ JJ NN IN DT NN : MD PRP VB IN . '' '' VBD NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ NNP , NNP CC NNP NNP . RB DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ JJ . PRP VBD VBN RB IN DT NN JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS VBG DT JJ NN NN , VBG TO DT NN VBD DT NNPS POS NNP IN JJ NNP . CC NNS VBP DT JJ JJ NN IN NNP POS NN IN NN VBZ DT NN VBN NN IN NN IN NNP POS JJ NN , IN DT NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBD IN CD WRB DT JJ NN VBD . 
DT NN , WDT VBD CD NNS IN CD NNS , VBN NNS VBG CD NNS IN NNP IN DT VBG CD NNS , DT JJ NN . DT IN DT JJR NN VBD DT CD NN JJR NN IN DT NN NN CC DT CD NN JJR NN IN NN . CC DT JJ NN IN NN NN CC NN IN DT JJR NN VBD RB VB IN DT JJR NN IN NN IN DT , IN JJ JJR NNS VBD IN JJ NNS IN DT JJR NN . IN DT , CD NNS VBG CD NNS VBD , VBN IN CD NNS VBG CD NNS . IN DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP WDT VBD DT NN , NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD IN NNS MD VB JJ IN VBG NNP NNS . DT JJR NN NN VBZ DT NN IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD IN JJ JJ NNS IN JJ NNP VBD RB DT NN IN NN . CC VBP RB JJ IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . 
VBG IN NN MD VB VBN , IN JJS IN DT NN , IN JJS IN PRP VBG PRP , VBD NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBZ VBN NN TO NNP IN NN IN VBG . NNS WP VBP TO VB NNS MD RB VB DT NNS TO VB DT NN IN DT NNS NN , '' PRP VBD . IN IN DT NN NNS VBN , NNP VBD TO DT NN IN DT NN NN VBN NNP ( NNP NNP NNP ) , IN WDT NNS VBP JJ CC JJ JJ NN RB IN DT NN POS NN . NNP VBD VBN IN DT JJ CD POS CC VBD IN JJ NN IN NN NNS IN DT NN . CC IN PRP VBD RB RB JJ NN CC RB NN VBD VBN IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBD RP , '' NNP VBD . NN PRP VBP JJ JJ NNS IN DT NN , VBG MD VB RP , RB . '' CC IN DT NNPS VBP DT JJ TO VB PRP RP . RB VB PRP . IN DT NNP . NN IN NN , PRP MD VB JJ IN NNS IN DT VBD RB DT JJ , '' PRP VBD . MD RB RB , IN DT NNP NNP NN VBD DT JJ TO VB DT NN NN , PRP VBP JJ NNS MD VB JJ RB TO VB NN . IN DT NN , DT NN NNS MD RB VB VB DT NN . '' 
DT NN POS NN , RB , VBZ RB TO VB DT NN IN VBN JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . CC DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , WP$ NNS VBP IN JJ NNS , VBZ VBN NN IN DT VBG NN IN NNS , RB NN CC JJ NN NN NN NN . IN DT NN JJ NN , JJ IN DT NNS VBD PRP VBD VBN IN DT NNS TO VB PRP NNS IN NNS WDT VBP TO VB DT JJ NN , '' WRB PRP MD RB RB VB JJ CC JJ . IN DT NN , RBS JJ NNS VBP PRP VBP VBG WP NNS VBP PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN NN . CC VB NN IN NNS WP VBP NNS IN VBG CC WP VBP TO PRP$ NNS , CC WP MD RB VB RB NN IN PRP VBP RB VB DT NN RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNPS IN NNP . 
NN VBZ RB CD IN DT NNS IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC NNP CC DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP . NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN NNS VBG IN DT NN VBD VBN RBR IN NNP NNP TO VBG RP DT JJ NN IN NN , CC DT IN PRP VBP JJ NNS IN NNP NNP . CC EX VBZ RB JJ NN TO VB . WDT VBP DT NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP . VB RB VBP RB VB WRB PRP VBZ VBN , WP VBZ PRP IN PRP$ NNS , CC WRB PRP VBP DT NN . '' CC IN JJ NNS NNP NNP VBG RB . IN CD RB , NNP NNP NNS IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN TO DT NN . PRP VBZ IN NNS CC VBG NNS CC VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN NNS TO DT NN , RB RB IN DT JJ NN . IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBZ RB IN PRP$ NN IN CD , VBN IN DT NN CC NN CC JJ IN JJR NN . 
IN NN NN NNS VBP IN IN , WRB CC WRB NNS MD VB IN NN , DT NN VBZ VBG IN IN JJS CD NNS : IN WP RB NNS VBZ IN DT NN VBZ DT NN IN NN , CC IN DT NN MD RB RB VB , FW VBP NN JJR TO VB PRP . '' JJR NNS VBP VBG JJ NN NNS IN NNS WP VBP IN RB JJ NNS CC PRP$ NNS TO VB PRP VB PRP$ NNS , IN DT JJ TO DT JJ . JJ NNS , WP$ NNS VBP IN NN TO NN , VBP NNS TO NN NNS . '' VBZ IN DT NN CC DT NN POS NN MD RB VB PRP RP CC VB PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN NNP . VB DT NN VBZ NNS , PRP VBZ JJ TO VB JJ . CC WRB DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN PRP , PRP VBP IN DT NN , RB WRB DT NN VBZ VBG . '' 
CC NNS , WP IN JJ NN IN VBG MD RB VB JJ NNS , RB DT JJ , VBP JJ IN DT NN POS JJ NNS IN VBG JJ NNS IN NNS IN PRP$ CD POS CC CD POS . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD IN IN DT NNP . NN VBD IN JJ NN CD NNS RB POS NN IN DT NNS PRP VBD VBG MD RB VB VBN . '' VBZ NNS TO VB NN JJ IN NNP . NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , VBZ CD NN IN DT NNS VBD MD VB VBN . IN EX VBZ DT NN IN PRP VBP VBN DT NN TO DT NN RB JJ JJR IN NNS IN NN VBP NN IN NNS IN VBG DT NNS . '' EX VBP JJ NNS , RB . NNP NNP , DT NN , VBD RB IN DT JJ NN NN VBG NNS TO VB NNP POS NNP . '' NNP NNP VBD VBN JJ CC JJ NN IN NN NN IN NNP CD . PRP MD RB VB RB DT NN IN NNP . NN , '' NNP NNP VBZ VBN VBG IN DT NN . NNS MD VB CD IN IN CD NNS IN PRP VBP IN DT NN . '' 
WRB PRP VBZ TO VBG DT NN , NNS : VB PRP NNS , NNS , NNS CC NNS : VBP JJ NNS . PRP VBP TO DT NN IN DT NN NNS , DT VBG NN , IN JJ NN . JJ NNS MD VB NN , IN RB TO DT RB VBN . CC PRP MD VB JJ NNS TO NNS VBG TO VB JJ NNS RB IN NN IN RB DT JJ JJ NNS . IN NNP MD VB VBD DT NNS VBG IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN , NNS RB VBP IN NNS PRP VBP TO VB MD VB TO VB NN TO VB IN DT JJ . WP IN RB JJ NNS IN JJ NNS ( RB TO VB NN NNS , DT JJ NNS WP$ NNS RB VB NNS VBN TO PRP ) , JJ NNS RB MD RB VB VBN TO VB DT NN PRP VBP IN . RB NNS VBG IN DT VBG NNS , DT NN NN , NN IN IN VBG DT JJ JJ JJ NNS PRP VBP VBN NNS WDT VBD RB RB VBG TO DT NNS , CC VBP VBN PRP RB RBR JJ . DT NN VBZ VBG NNS IN DT NNS POS NNS IN NNS VBN RP IN DT RBS JJ NNS . 
DT NN , RB DT JJ NN IN DT NN WDT JJ NNS , MD RB VB DT NN PRP VBD . NNP , RB , VBD NN IN PRP . NN NNS VBD TO VB DT NNS VBN IN PRP$ NN NN . JJ NN VBD VBN VBN TO VB IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN . CC NNS VBD DT NN . IN DT NN , RB VBG NNS VBD RB JJR RB VBN IN VBG RP IN , CC WDT , NNS VBD VBN . DT NN IN DT MD VB VBN VBN DT JJ NN RB VBG TO NNS . DT NN NN VBD VBN TO NNS IN DT CD NN VBN IN DT NNS IN NNP NNP . DT NN IN DT NN , NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD DT JJ NN . CC JJ NN , '' PRP VBD , VBZ DT NN POS NN IN JJ NN NN CC NN IN DT NN POS NN . '' PRP RB VBD PRP$ JJ NNS CC VBD RP IN EX VBD DT NN IN DT NN IN NN MD RB VB . CD NN IN DT NN NN , VBN IN DT JJ CD POS , VBD VB DT NN IN JJ NNS CC JJ NNS IN CD NN . CC RB RB IN DT NN VBD VBN , JJ NNS CC NNS VBD , CC CD NNS RB DT NN VBD IN IN NN . DT NN VBD IN IN DT JJ NN VBD VB NNS , DT NNS VBD JJ IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN . 
NNP NNP POS NN , RB , VBZ IN VBG NNS DT NN TO VB MD VB TO JJR NNS . WRB JJ NNS VBP VBN , CC PRP$ NN VBZ VBN , EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN PRP MD VB , FW WRB DT NN POS VBG , '' PRP VBD . CC DT JJS NN TO VB MD VB IN JJS NN NNS VBP IN VBG NNS POS NN , RB IN PRP VBZ CD TO VB DT NN . NNS VBP IN DT RBR JJ DT NN IN NN CC NN VBZ , DT RBR JJ PRP MD VB IN NN NNS . CC WRB DT NN VBZ JJ , EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NN . NNP NNP VBZ IN JJ NN MD VB VBN IN DT NN NN IN JJ NN . '' PRP VBZ JJ NNS WDT MD VB NNS IN DT NNS TO VB NNS CC VB DT NNS . VBG NNS IN DT NNS IN VBG IN DT NN MD VB JJR IN VBG NNS , NNP NNP VBD . NN PRP VBP TO DT NN NN CC NN NNS IN PRP VBP IN JJ NN , PRP NN IN NN IN DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . CC IN PRP VBP DT TO DT NNS RB , PRP DT VBP DT NN TO VB PRP . '' 
JJ NNP NN , NNP NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN NN NN TO VB WRB DT JJ JJ NN IN NN NN IN JJ NNS VBD VBN VBN . IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN , WDT VBD IN DT NN RB VBD DT NN IN NN , PRP VBD NNS TO VB IN EX VBD DT NN TO VB , CC PRP VBD NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS IN JJ . NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP POS NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP , VBN TO VB RB IN NNS IN CD WP , IN DT IN DT NN , VBD VBG NN RB IN PRP VBD NN DT NN . CC WRB PRP VBD DT NN IN JJ NNS WDT VBD PRP NN NN , JJ VBD IN NNS IN PRP$ CD POS CC JJR . JJS VBD VBN PRP$ NNS CC NNS VBN IN JJ NNS , VBG PRP IN NN , CC PRP VBD VBN VBN IN PRP MD VB NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NNS . 
POS NN DT NN WRB DT NN MD VB PRP$ NN IN VBG DT NN VBZ DT NN IN CD NN IN RB VBG VBN JJ IN DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD VB RB IN DT JJ NN , VBD DT NNS RB VBN CC VBN , MD VB VBN RP IN DT NN IN NN IN DT . '' NNP NNP VBD IN JJS IN DT NNS VBD JJR IN CD NNS IN DT NN NN NN , CC IN VBG RB DT JJS NNS VBD DT NN IN DT NNS . CC PRP VBD IN NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN . CD VBG NNS , '' PRP VBD , '' VBP TO VB JJ WP PRP VBP VBG CC VB NN IN IN DT NN WP VBZ VBD DT JJ NN VBZ RP IN DT JJ NN PRP MD VB VBN IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN . CC VBD VB DT NN VBG DT NN IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' PRP VBD RB VB IN DT JJ NN VBZ DT NN IN DT NN DT JJ NN MD VB VBN . '' 
NNS IN DT NN NN VBP IN VBG JJ , JJ NN VBZ JJ . PRP VBP TO VB POS JJ NN NNS : JJ NNS ( CC JJ JJ NNS ) VBP JJ NN NNS WDT VBP IN NN VBZ VBN IN NN NN . EX VBP JJ JJ NNS , IN DT NNP NNP NNP POS NN IN NNS ( WDT VBZ NNS TO VB NNS IN PRP$ NN NNS MD VB TO NNS ) . CC NNS VBP RB NNS : PRP VBP NNS . CC JJ NN NNS NNS VBP DT JJ NNS VBP RB VB . IN DT NN , EX VBZ DT NN , DT NN CC DT NN IN WRB TO VB WRB PRP VBZ TO VB CC VB NN . DT NNS : IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP : JJ NN TO VB NNS CC VB NNS VB WP NN PRP$ NNS MD VB VBN IN . CC NNS VBP RB . DT NN VBZ RB DT NN CC CD VBG RB NN CC NN MD VB VBN IN NN CC NN . WRB PRP VBZ TO NNS , DT NN NNS VBP JJ IN CC VB , FW MD VB CC VB DT NNS CC JJ JJ NN IN PRP . '' NNPS VBP NN CC VB , FW MD VB DT NN IN VBG NN . '' RB NNS VBP NN : CD NN MD VB VBN IN VBG DT NN NNP NNP . NN VBZ JJ IN PRP MD VB JJ TO VB ( VB IN ) DT JJ NN ( NN ) IN DT NNS VBN IN DT NN . '' 
NNS MD VB DT NN IN PRP VBP DT NN CC VB PRP IN PRP VBZ DT NN CC VB DT RB JJ NN CC VB PRP , '' PRP VBD . IN PRP VBZ JJ TO VB IN EX VBP NNS IN NN CC NN , IN DT PRP MD VB IN NNS TO VB NN IN PRP VBP PRP$ NNS MD RB VB JJ NN CC PRP MD RB VB IN DT NN . '' 
IN JJ NNS , DT NN TO VB CC VB NN NN MD RB VB JJ . DT VBD NN IN VBD NN IN NN NN , NN NN CC NN NNS VBD IN DT NN VBD RB VB JJ RB TO VB VBG RP NNS . '' VBP VBN DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , CD , IN NNP NNP , NNP . '' VBP VBG IN CD JJR NNS IN CD WP VBD JJ NN . PRP RB VBP DT VBZ RB JJ JJ TO VB PRP VB . PRP VBP RB JJ IN JJ NN . PRP VBP NNS WP VBP RB VBN NNS , CC PRP VBP VBG NN NN . '' NNP NNP , CD , DT JJ NN IN NNP , NNP , VBD : CD VBP RB RB VBG WP PRP VBP VBG . PRP VBP PRP$ NNS VBP VBN NNS , CC IN PRP , NN NN VBZ VBN JJ . '' NNP NNP VBZ PRP$ NN IN DT NN CC VBZ JJ NNS CC NN NNS . IN PRP VBZ IN DT JJ NN NN , CC NN IN NN NN , CC EX VBZ DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBZ JJ . 
PRP VBD IN DT NNP NNS MD VB DT RB VBN NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS . CD JJ NNS IN NNS IN DT NNP NNPS VBP IN JJ NNS VBP RBR JJ TO VB JJ NN NNS IN NNS CC NN NN . DT NNS VBP IN DT NN IN VBG NN IN NN NNS IN NN NN . NNS VBP IN JJ NNS VBP CD TO CD NNS RB JJ TO VB VBN IN PRP VBD CD NNS RB , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNS CC JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP POS NNP NNP NNP CC DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP . NNP NNP VBD JJ NNS IN JJ NNS : IN VBN NN NN , DT NN IN JJ NN CC NN JJ NNS : VBD VBN TO DT NN . IN DT JJ NN VBG RB NNS IN NNS , PRP VBZ NN IN VBG NN IN NN VBD DT NN IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . '' DT NN POS VBN , CC PRP$ NN VBZ RB . '' 
TO DT NN , NNP NNP CC DT NN VBP VBG IN TO DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT $ CD CD NN IN DT NNP NN TO VB JJ NN . DT NN IN DT NN : DT NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP : IN NNP VBD NNP POS NN TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT RB JJ NN . CC RB IN VBG VBD RP DT NN IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NN , JJ NN NNS RB IN DT JJ NN : NN NN NN . IN DT JJ NN MD VB PRP$ NN IN JJ NN NNS , NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN IN NNS VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN . DT VBZ IN IN DT JJ NN NNS , PRP MD VB TO VBG JJ NN NNS IN VBG DT NN , PRP VBD . NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD RB TO VB WP PRP VBP VBN IN JJ NN IN NNS CC VB PRP TO NNS , IN DT NN VBG NNS IN WRB TO VB JJ JJ NNS IN NNP POS CC NNP POS . 
DT NNS VBD TO VB DT NN IN VBG NN NN CC NN CC IN VBG DT NN NNS . 
NNP NNP VBD VBG JJ NNS IN CD IN NNP , RB VBD TO NNP . PRP VBZ IN PRP$ NN VBZ DT JJ JJ NN IN NNS MD VB IN PRP$ NNS , CC IN PRP$ JJ NN IN VBN NN , NN IN NNP IN DT NN CC RB RB JJ TO DT NN , VBZ PRP DT NN . PRP RB VBZ DT NN , RB VBN IN NNS IN JJ NNS , TO VB NNS IN DT NN . NNS VBP DT RB JJ NN IN VBG RB NN JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN . NNS VBP JJ NNS CC JJ NNS IN NNP NNP , CC EX VBZ DT NN IN DT NN NN . PRP VBP TO DT NNS IN CD IN NN CC DT NN VBZ RB . NNP VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ TO VB IN CD NNS DT NN . PDT DT JJ NNS VBP VBG VBZ VBG DT NN CC VBG DT NNS IN RB . '' 
DT NN IN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ CC NNS NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . DT VBZ WRB PRP$ VBG NN NNS IN NNS WP VBP TO VB PRP IN PRP$ NNS . CD NNS IN NN NN VBP RB JJ TO DT NN IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . JJ NN RBR IN DT NN CC NN , CC DT NN RB VBZ IN VBG DT NN . PRP VBZ JJ RB TO VB PRP WRB DT NN VBZ RB JJ . '' NNP NN , NNP NNP VBD , CD VBG RP TO RB VB IN DT NNP JJ NN VBN IN NNS NN NNS . '' VBG PRP , IN NNP NNP VBD PRP , VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN NNS CC MD VB TO VB . NNP NN MD RB VB IN JJ NNS , VBG JJ NN CC JJ NNS IN VBG CD NN JJR IN DT JJ CC NN IN DT NN . 
VBG NNS IN NN NNS IN NNS CC NN NNS MD RB VB JJ IN DT JJ NN . IN CD , DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBD VBG RB TO CD NNS IN NN IN NN IN JJ , DT JJ JJ JJ NN IN NN NN NN IN JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBD IN IN DT JJ CD POS PRP VBD DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS CC DT TO PRP$ NN , PRP RB VBD TO NN . VBN IN NN , DT NN IN DT NNP . VBD IN DT NN VBD CD IN DT NNS VBG JJ JJ NN '' IN NNS CC IN PRP VBD VBN IN EX VBZ DT NN IN NNS TO VB VBN . '' IN DT NN , JJ NNS VBP RB VBN IN JJ NNS CC VBN '' IN DT NNP , PRP VBD . NNP NNP VBD IN IN NNS IN NNP VBP RB RBR RB JJ , JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS VBZ DT NN CC NN IN JJ NN NN , IN DT CD VBG PRP$ NN , IN NN NN . 
NN , NN NN , NN : NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN , CC IN DT JJ JJ NNS , CD NNP NNPS IN JJ IN JJ VBD DT JJ JJ NN . CC IN DT NNS WDT VBD , PRP$ NNS VBN . JJ NN : IN JJ NN IN NN , NN , NN CC NN : VBD DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP POS , NNP NNP POS CC NNP NNP POS NNS TO VB . NNP VBD NN IN DT NNS IN PRP$ NN VBZ TO DT NN NN DT VBD , DT NNS PRP VBD TO CC DT NNS PRP VBD TO VB . PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN PRP$ NN , DT NN PRP VBD IN PRP$ NNS , PRP$ NNS IN PRP$ NNS . PRP VBD VB PRP$ NN TO VB PRP$ NNS CC VBD PRP$ NNS IN VBG RBR . NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN CC NN IN DT NNP NNPS . DT JJR NN CC NN NNS VBP , DT RBR JJ PRP VBP TO VB CC VB IN NN NN , NNS , NNS CC JJ NNS IN NN . JJ NNPS JJ JJR CC IN JJR NN IN NN NNPS , WP VBP JJR CC JJR IN DT IN DT NN . CC DT NNS VBP VBG , VBP NNS WP VBP VBN JJ NNS IN NN . 
NNS IN NNP CC NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBG DT NN IN DT NN POS NN IN VBG IN PRP . NNP NN IN NNP NNP , WDT VBD RBR DT NN TO VB NNP , VBD RB IN DT NN VBD VBG WDT IN DT NNP NN POS NNS TO VB . IN JJ NNS , DT DT NNS VBP VBN RB VBG RBR JJ NNS IN NN NN IN NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS TO NNS . DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ RB VBN TO VB NNS CC NNS TO VB RBR JJ IN VBG JJ NNS CC TO VB IN DT NN VB VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN POS NN TO VB IN PRP$ NN MD VB VBN DT NN . IN NN , DT NN VBZ VBN TO VB DT JJR NNS VB VBN IN NNS TO VB WRB VBG IN TO VB DT NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN DT NN CC DT NN . CD NN VBZ IN DT NN IN NN IN NN NN MD , IN DT NNS , VBP DT NN VBN IN DT NN , RB IN NNS WP$ NNS VBP RB JJ IN DT NN NN . 
NNP POS NNS MD VB IN IN PRP VBP PDT DT NN IN DT NN , CC IN NN PRP VBP IN CD NNS IN PRP VBP RB IN DT NN CC DT JJ IN PRP VBP RB IN DT JJ NN . NNP , WP VBZ RB VBN IN NNS IN NN IN PRP VBZ JJ NNS , MD VB DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN . CC PRP VBP IN DT NN , PRP VBP IN EX VBZ DT NN CC NN IN DT JJ NN , CC RB PRP VBP TO VB PRP EX VBZ RB . PRP VBP NN CC RB VB PRP , '' PRP VBZ . PRP VBZ DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN , WDT VBZ RB RB RB . NNP VBZ VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN DT RB JJ NN IN NNP , NNP , IN PRP VBD IN JJ NN CD NNS RB . IN DT NN , PRP VBZ PRP$ NN IN CD NN CC VBZ IN PRP$ NN RB CD . JJ CD CC CD , PRP VBZ NNS , NN CC NNS , VBZ NN CC VBZ IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN . 
PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NN CC DT WP VBP PRP IN CD NN IN NNS WP VBP NN NN PRP : CC RB JJR : IN DT JJ NNS CC NNS . DT NN VBZ VBN VBN RB IN DT JJ CD NNS , IN JJ NNS , JJ NNS , NN NNS CC NNS . CC PRP VBZ DT NN RB JJ NNS VBP VBG IN DT NN IN NN . CC IN NN , NN NNS VBP , DT NN VBZ DT NN WRB JJ NNS MD VB NN CC VB PRP RP . RB , IN NNS VBP TO VB WRB JJ NNS VBP VBN , PRP VBP RB VBG DT NN NNS IN NNS WDT MD VB NNS TO VB . CC CD NN NN VBZ VBN JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP . EX VBZ DT NN IN PRP , PRP VBD , VBD PRP VBZ NN IN DT NN IN NN . '' 
DT NN VBD CD NNS IN DT NNP NNPS CC NNP IN JJ JJ NN NN NN . DT NN NN NN VBD VBN IN DT NN WDT DT NNS VB RB DT NN . NNS VBD RB JJR JJ , RB RB RBR JJ , IN NN . DT NN , VBN IN NNS IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD CD NNS IN NN NN WP VBD VBN TO VB PRP$ NNS VBN . IN DT NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN RB , DT NNS VBD VBN . PRP VBD VBN IN DT NNS IN DT NNS WP VBD VBN DT NN VBD VBN VBG IN CD NN TO CD NN RBR RB IN IN DT WP VBD RB . DT NN NN VBD IN DT NN MD VB VB NN , WDT VBZ JJ IN NNS IN NN . DT NN VBD CD NNS IN JJ NNS IN NN . IN CD NN IN DT NNS WP VBD CD IN DT CD JJR NNS IN JJ NN IN NN NN , CC CD CC CD NNS DT NN , VBD IN PRP$ NN VBD VBN RB RBR '' CC JJ JJR . '' IN VBD IN RB CD CD IN DT WP VBD CC DT JJR NN IN NN CC DT NN . 
VBG IN NN VBZ CD NNS : RB DT JJ NN CC WP VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN NNS , DT NN IN NNS VBN TO VB NNS IN DT NN DT NN VBZ IN NN IN . DT NN , IN PRP$ JJ NN NN , JJ NN CC NN , MD VB IN NN IN DT NN NN , DT NN CC , IN JJ NNS PRP$ NN , NN NNS . PRP MD VB VBN IN DT IN DT NN CC RB DT NN VBN DT JJ NN TO VB JJ NN CC NN IN NN . IN VBG DT NN POS NN , PRP VBD PRP VBD VBN PRP$ NN CC PRP$ NN TO PRP$ JJ NNS : VBG DT IN DT JJ NNS PRP VBD . PRP VBD VBN PRP IN PRP VBD NNS JJ , CC PRP VBD VBD DT . PRP VBP RB VB PRP VBD VBG : PRP VBP PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN NN VBD RB CD JJR NN VBN IN PRP IN PRP$ NN . RB JJ IN DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NN VBD RB JJ CC JJ . PRP VBP PRP VBD IN DT NN , IN JJS , MD VB JJ . 
DT NN IN CD NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBD IN DT WP VBP PRP$ NN VBD JJR JJ IN PRP$ NN CC VBD RBR JJ NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP NN IN NNP . DT NNS VBD VBN IN DT NNP CD , NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP . RB NNP NNP VBZ VBG CD NNS TO VB DT JJS NN TO VB NNS JJ NNS IN PRP MD VB WRB PRP VBP NN CC VB VBN IN PRP$ NN . '' VBZ JJS IN DT JJ NN , PRP MD VB DT JJR NN NN , '' PRP VBD . DT NN VBZ TO VB VBN IN VBG NN , NN CC NN . CD NN VBD IN PRP$ NN , DT JJ , VBD RB VBN TO DT NN IN NNS IN PRP VBD RB TO VB CD NNS IN DT NN VBD PRP TO VB . 
DT NN VBZ IN CD NN IN DT NN VBZ DT JJ JJ NN , '' IN VBN IN JJ JJ NNS . PRP RB VBZ IN JJ NN , VBG NN , VBZ DT JJ JJ NN IN NN , '' IN NN NN . CC , PRP VBZ , JJ NNS IN DT NNS IN JJ JJ NNS VBP RB VB NN . '' DT NNS , VBN IN NNS VBN IN DT JJ JJ NNS , MD RB RB VB NNS , NNS CC JJ NNS IN JJ NN . CC DT NN VBZ JJ IN PRP RB VBZ JJ NNS IN NNS CC VBZ DT NN IN DT NN IN DT NNS , RB IN DT NN NN POS NN IN VBG CC NN VBD IN CD . JJ NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN IN NN NNS VBN IN NNS IN NN , NN CC NN WDT NN NN CC VB DT NN POS NN TO NN . PRP VBP NNP POS NN , NN , JJ CC NN NN CC NN . 
PRP VBD DT JJ NN TO DT WP VBP JJ NN . DT JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN VBD RB VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , IN VBG JJ NN NNS CC VBG DT NN , VBG IN NNS IN NNS IN NN , NN CC NN IN EX VBD NNS TO VB DT NNS CC NNS TO VB PRP . NNP NNP VBD IN NNS IN NN , NN , NNP POS NN CC JJ NNS MD VB VBN RB IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN CC IN DT NN IN JJ NNS CC NNS , DT IN WDT MD VB NNS IN JJ CC NN WDT MD VB RB NN . NNP , JJ NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNPS , IN NN NN DT NNP . CD NN CC VBZ DT . CD . DT NN NN NNS VBD IN RBR MD VB VBN TO VB DT NNS RB IN JJ JJ NNS RB IN VBG DT NN NNS IN NN . 
NNP NNP VBD VBN TO VB IN NN IN VBG NNS , CC PRP VBD RB IN DT NN NN PRP MD VB , IN JJ NNS , NNS CC NN , DT NN CC RB DT JJ NN . CD NNS RB , NNP NNP POS NN VBD IN PRP VB NN NN , CC PRP VBD . EX VBP RB NNS TO DT NN PRP VBP , IN PRP VBZ JJ CC JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP , CD , DT NN IN NNP , NNP . '' PRP VBP VBN VBG IN NN . PRP VBP PRP$ NN POS NN VBD , '' DT NNS IN PRP , RB RB , VBP DT NNS . '' '' NNP CC DT NN NNS IN DT NN NN VBD NNS IN VBG IN NN NN VBD JJ NNS CC VBD RB VB NN NN IN JJ NNS , JJ NNS VBP TO VB TO NNS IN NN . JJ NNS VBP TO VB PRP IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS . VBZ IN DT NN POS NNS VBP JJ , IN NNS VBN IN DT WP VBP IN DT NN IN NN NN TO VB DT NN CC VB NN NNS CC DT WP VBP IN DT NN NNS VBP VBN VBN . 
RB , NNS IN DT NN JJ NN MD VB IN DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NN NN VBZ RB VBN , VBG NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN . CC DT NN NNS , CC NNS POS NNS IN NNS , VBD TO VB IN DT NN WRB NN VBD JJ CC VBG . DT NNS , VBG DT NN PRP MD RB VB TO VB JJ , VBN TO VB RB IN VB JJ NN NNS . IN DT NN NN VBD JJ TO PRP , WDT RB VBZ RB VB RP TO DT NN IN JJ NN IN NN NN IN DT NN POS NN CC JJ JJ NN . 
NN 
NNP NNP POS NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . IN PRP$ NNS VBD JJ , PRP MD VB RP IN DT NNP NN IN JJ NNP , WRB DT NNS PRP VBZ VBN VBG JJ . EX VBZ DT JJ NN TO DT NN IN JJ NN , PRP VBZ : VB PRP$ NNS VBP NN . '' IN JJ NNS , VB PRP JJ CC IN DT JJ NN . NNP , DT NN IN NN CC JJ NN IN NNP NNP , VBZ CD IN DT NN IN NNS WP VBP IN NN VBZ RB VBN IN NN . '' DT NN IN JJ NN VBZ RB VBG , CC IN NNS PRP VBD IN PRP$ NNS VBD VBG PRP TO VB IN NNP NNP . DT VBD PRP$ NN RB IN DT NN IN IN NN VBZ DT RB JJ NN IN JJ NNS , RB JJ IN PRP$ NNS VBP RB JJ . PRP VBP VBG RB JJ NN , VBG RB JJ NN NN CC NN RB JJ NN VBG RB RB . IN DT NN , DT NN IN NNS NNS CD TO CD WP VBP VBN JJ RB VBD IN DT JJ CD NNS . 
POS NN RB VBD DT NNS IN NNS WP VBP RB VB NN TO NN NN , '' PRP VBD . CC JJ NN VBZ RB NN . IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBZ DT JJ NN NN , CC NNS VBP VBN IN PRP . '' POS JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' WP VBZ IN DT NN IN DT NN WP VBZ RB VBN VBN CC WP VBZ RB VB NN TO NN . '' 
NNS WP VBP VBN NN IN TO DT NNS IN IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN , CC NN NNS RB RB , PRP MD RB VB PRP$ NN IN DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC MD VB JJR , IN DT NN , IN PRP MD VB IN PRP VBD JJ NNS , CC DT JJ NN , IN VBG PRP TO DT NN , CC DT VBZ RB WRB PRP VBZ . RB IN DT NN VBZ VBN , IN DT NN WDT VBD IN NNS IN NN NNS VBD RBR , NNS MD VB TO VB PRP IN PRP VBZ JJ DT VBG NN . '' JJ NNS VBD IN PRP MD VB IN NN IN NN NNS VBD NN CC IN DT VBD RB WRB PRP VBD . CC VB TO PRP$ NN TO VB PRP JJ , '' VBD DT NN IN NNP . CC VB TO PRP$ NN TO VB PRP VBG . CC PRP VBP DT IN PRP . PRP VBZ JJ , IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBD IN NN IN NNS IN NNS VBG DT JJ CD NNS , CC DT VBZ RB DT NN PRP VBP . '' 
IN VBG TO DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN . RB JJ RB VBN JJ NN VBZ DT JJS NN IN NN NN . PRP VBZ RB VBG IN IN DT NNP NNPS , IN NNS CC NN NN TO VB DT NN RB CC DT JJ NN RB . CC DT VBZ NNP , WRB DT WP MD VB PRP VB VBN VBN TO VBG RB IN JJ NN , RB VBN IN JJ NNS WP VBP VBN PRP . NNP NNP VBD CD IN PRP . PRP VBD TO DT NNP NNPS IN CD , CC IN DT NN POS VBD VBG IN $ CD CD DT NN IN DT NNP NN NN . CC RB PRP VBD WP JJ JJ NNS VBP : PRP VBD RB , VBN RB IN DT NNPS WP VBD VBG RP IN PRP$ NN NN CC VBG WRB PRP MD RB VB DT JJ NN IN NN RB NN . PRP VBD RB , PRP VBD , IN POS JJ NN IN NN : DT NN IN JJ NN . '' 
CC PRP VBZ RB VBG TO NNP NNP . NNP NN IN NN , PRP VBZ , VBP JJ CC JJ . IN VBG IN DT NNS IN JJ NNS , PRP VBZ , JJ NNS VBP VBN NNS VBP , CC IN PRP$ NN PRP MD RB VB NN CC NN . VB IN IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBZ , CC VBP PRP TO VB NN VBG IN DT NN . IN PRP VBP RB JJ , VBG NN MD RB VB NN JJ NN NN , DT RBR JJ NN . CC PRP MD VB DT NN , PRP VBZ , TO VB IN VBG VBD CC VBG NNS MD VB NN IN NN . NNP NNP VBZ VBN VBN IN DT NN CC PRP$ NNS IN PRP$ JJS NNS IN DT NN IN NNP . VBG NN , TO PRP , VBD IN VBG NNS IN JJ NN . CC PRP VBP DT JJ NN PRP MD VB PRP RB , '' PRP VBD . VB PRP VBZ IN NNS IN DT NN . DT NN VBZ IN DT NN CC DT NN IN NN . '' 
RB DT NN MD VB VBN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP IN NNP WP VBD PRP IN DT NN IN NNP NNP POS . PRP CC JJ NNS VBD NNP NNP VBD DT JJ JJ NN . WDT VBP TO VB WRB PRP VBP VBG DT JJ NN , WP DT NN NN VBZ IN DT NN IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN JJ NNS IN JJ NNS VBN IN NN , IN DT JJ NN NN , VBP VBG DT NN IN DT VBN NNP NNP , NNP NNP VBD EX VBD DT NN IN VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NN MD VB RB JJ . CC DT NNP VB NN VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN NN IN RB VBG DT NN IN NN , IN RB VBG DT JJR NN IN NNP NNP VBD VBN PRP , CC IN VBG DT NN TO VB VBN DT NN '' IN DT NN NN VBN IN DT NNS . 
POS . NNP NNP POS NNP TO VBG NNP NNP , '' IN NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP , $ CD . VB NNP NNP : JJ NNP IN NNP CC NNP , '' IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP CC NN : NNP , $ CD . VB JJ NN NN , '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN NNP NNP , VBZ IN PRP$ NN . '' VBZ DT JJ NN , WDT VBZ RP IN JJ NNS IN RB IN DT NN . '' RB , IN DT NN IN CD JJ NNS VBG IN IN PRP , DT JJ NN VBZ DT NN WDT MD VB VBN IN DT NN VBZ RB TO VB CD IN DT VBN CD NNPS WP VBP IN PRP DT NN . DT RBS JJ NN , IN DT NN VBZ VBN TO DT NN , VBZ RB JJ NN , DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT JJ IN DT NN WDT VBZ RP NNS . CC RB JJ IN PRP VBZ , DT JJ NN VBZ , IN DT NNS IN DT CD NNS VBP , VBD IN RB JJR , RB JJ NNS WP VBP RB RB JJ CC WP MD VB VB TO VB IN JJS DT CD CC RB NNS . 
NNP NNP NNP VBZ TO VB NNS TO VB PRP$ JJ NN , DT NN NN NN VBZ TO VB IN PRP$ JJ NN , WDT VBZ DT NN TO NNS IN CD NNS . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN . RB WRB DT NN VBD RB CC JJ NNS IN NNS VBN TO VB RP JJ NN , NNP VBZ VBN TO VB DT NN , CC RB . DT NNS VBN RB DT NN WDT VBD PRP TO VB VBG JJ NNS RB : RB RB IN DT NN NN VBD VBN . JJR IN CD NNS VBD VBN TO CD NNS : NN DT JJ NNS : DT VBG JJ JJ NN . NNP , WDT VBZ VBN CD NNS TO PRP$ JJ NN , VBZ VBN NN IN DT NN WRB PRP VBZ TO VBG NN IN DT JJ NN , CC PRP$ NNS VBP JJ IN DT NN . CC NN JJ NNS EX VBZ JJ NN IN NNS CC , IN DT JJS NN , NNS , IN DT VBG NN IN VBG DT NNP IN NN IN VBG NNS CC VBG NNS TO VBG JJ NN CC NN NNS . JJ NNS IN NNP VBP RB VBG RB IN DT NN WRB DT NN MD VB DT NN IN DT NN POS NNP NN VBG JJ NN CC NNS TO NNS IN NN . 
NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP POS JJ NN NN , MD VB DT NN TO VB PRP$ NN NN IN PRP VBD VBN JJ NN CC VBN IN PRP VBP NNS WDT RB VBP NNS , DT NN NN VBD NNP . DT NN IN DT NN , IN NNP NNP NNP WRB NNP NNP VBD PRP$ NN , VBD IN PRP VBD RB RB RB VB PRP$ NN IN DT NN VBN IN DT NN NN IN NNP , CC VBD DT JJ NN . CC RB PRP MD RB VB DT NN NNS VBG NNP NNP POS CD NN WDT RB VBP DT NN IN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN POS NN IN NN NNS , IN DT NN . VBG TO PRP$ NN , NNP NNP POS NN VBZ RB VB JJ NNS TO VB IN PRP VBZ VBN JJ NN NNS . '' EX VBD DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP , WP VBD JJ NN IN NNS IN PRP$ NN CC VBD IN DT NN . 
EX VBP RB DT NNS IN WP NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ DT NN CC NN IN PRP$ NN . EX VBP RB DT NNS WP VBP VBN IN VBG VBN VBN . IN PRP VBP NN WP VBZ DT RB JJ , JJ JJ CC JJ , CC PRP VBP IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN IN NN NN , PRP VBP RP PRP$ NN NN RB . IN IN VBG RB , PRP VBP PRP NN CC NN CC DT , PRP VBP VBN PRP$ NN IN NN , CC PRP MD VB IN DT NN RB MD VB VBN PRP$ NN . PRP MD VB VBN RB CC PRP MD VB VBD DT NN NN IN CD . PRP VBP IN DT NN IN DT NN . CC PRP RB VB VBG IN NN CD . RB NN VBZ VBN CD JJ NNP . VBZ IN DT NN , PRP MD VB PRP DT JJ NN , IN EX VBZ DT RB JJ NN IN DT VBZ RB JJ IN VBG NN IN VBG PRP DT NN . PRP VBP NN CC PRP VBP VBN . 
CD NNS VBP RB VBG DT NN , '' PRP VBD . MD WRB NN VBZ VBN , PRP VBP DT JJ NN IN NN , CC RB DT NNS VBP RP RB DT NN . '' IN DT JJ NN VBN NNS IN JJ NNS , VBG NN , NNP NNP VBD RB DT NNS IN JJ NN VBD RB JJ . NNP POS , CC VBN NN , VBP DT NN IN NN NNS WDT VBD VBN IN DT CD POS . DT JJ NN VBZ PRP VBP DT JJ NN , IN DT VBZ RB VBN VBN IN NNS . PRP VBD RB VBN IN NNS CC NNS CC TO VB NNS IN NNS CC NNS . DT JJ NNS VBN IN DT NN VBP NNS : VBD , IN NN , WRB NN NNS , IN NNS , VBP VBN : CC CD VBD NNS , NN CC NN . DT NN IN DT NN , VBN IN NNS CC NNS IN NNP CC IN NNP CC NNP NNP , VBD DT NNS IN PRP$ NN . NNP NNP NN NN JJ NN CC NN IN NN IN JJR NNS IN NNS IN NNP POS . 
IN DT NN , IN NNP NNP VBD VBG DT NN , DT NN IN NNS IN DT NN VBD VBN . VB DT NN WRB IN DT NN PRP VBD RB CC RB VBN , PRP VBD RB VBG IN DT NN IN DT NN TO VB WP MD VB RB RB , '' NNP NNP VBD IN JJ NN . RB DT NN IN VBG IN NN VBD VBN , NNP NNP VBD . DT NNS , PRP VBD , RB VBD DT NN IN DT NN POS NN , VBG DT NN WDT VBD JJ . CC IN DT JJ NN PRP VBD VBN TO PRP$ JJ NN . IN PRP MD VB DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBP DT NN IN PRP . PRP VBP : CD VBP IN JJR IN NN RB . DT VBZ VBN TO VB JJ . WP VBZ PRP IN PRP MD VB TO VB PRP . '' '' IN NN , NNP NNP CC NNS VBD , NNS RB VBD TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN . 
NNP NNP VBD IN NN IN NN VBN PDT DT NN IN PRP$ . IN VBG PRP VBD NN , PRP VBD TO VB DT NNS VBD . PRP VBD DT JJ NN NN IN NN NN CC VBD VBN IN PRP MD VB NN IN PRP$ JJ NN . CC PRP VBD TO VB VBN NN IN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NNS . NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NN NN , VBD DT NN . CC PRP VBD RP IN DT NN , PRP VBD VBG PRP$ JJ NN CC PRP VBD VBG PRP$ JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC PRP VBP IN PRP , PRP VBZ PRP VB TO VB . '' 
NNP NNP VBD IN DT NNP NNP IN DT NNS IN NNP NNP CD NNS RB TO VB JJ NN . PRP$ JJ JJ NN : IN DT NNS VBD CC VBD JJ NNS TO VB RP NNS : VBD DT VBN NN WDT NNS VBD VBN IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NN TO VB CC VB NNS . NNP NNP VBZ RB VBG DT NNS IN NNS CC NNS . CC IN CD , PRP NN VBZ VBN DT JJ NN . VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP POS JJ NN CC DT NN IN NNS IN NNS IN NN NN , PRP VBZ PRP$ NNS TO VBG DT JJ NN IN NNS WDT VBP TO VB NN . DT NNS VBP NNP CC NNP , DT JJ CC JJ NN IN JJ NNS IN CD NNS : NNS IN NNP IN NNS VBN IN NNS : NNP , DT JJ NN NN VBN TO DT NN IN NNS IN JJ NNS : DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP : CC DT NN CC NN NN VBN NNP IN NNP IN NNP . 
DT NN VBN IN DT NNP NNP NN VBZ VBN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ VBG VBG NNS TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN , IN NNS CC IN DT JJ NN , TO VB CC VB DT NN IN DT NN . DT NN VBD DT NNS TO VB DT NN : CC DT NN : IN VBG DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NN . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD DT JJ NN NN VBZ RBR JJ CC MD VB JJR IN JJ NNS . PRP VBZ NNS , JJ NN NN ( NNP . ) , JJ CC JJ VBG NNS TO VB JJ NNS CC NN IN RB DT JJ NN IN VBG JJ NNS RB . NNP NNP NNP . NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , CC NNS VBD DT JJ NN NN VBD DT NN IN VBG JJ NNS IN NNS IN NNP POS NN CC JJ NN NNS VBD IN DT NN , NN RB CC RB IN DT NN CC NN NN . 
POS NN VBZ , IN DT JJR NN IN DT NN , DT NN IN NN VBZ JJ TO VB JJR , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NNP , WP VBZ NN CC JJ NNS IN NNP NNP , VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NNS VBD DT NN IN VBG NNS VBP DT NN IN JJ NNS . CC VBP NNS TO VB IN DT JJ NN VBZ TO VB NN TO VB NNS IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC NN IN NNS VBP VBN TO VB JJ NNS VBZ JJ . '' VBZ VBP RB VB TO VB PRP VBP JJ , '' PRP VBD IN . IN PRP RB VBP NNS IN NNS TO VB WP PRP VBZ PRP VBP VBG . '' NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD IN NNS MD VB JJ TO VB IN NNS RB IN IN DT NN IN PRP MD VB JJR RB IN VBG IN CD . PRP MD RB VB PRP$ NNS . '' JJ NN VBZ IN DT NN VBZ VBG TO VB PRP$ NN IN DT NN IN NN , CC PRP VBP RB VB DT , '' PRP VBD . NNS VBP , '' VBP PRP VBZ DT JJ NN TO VB IN PRP$ NN POS NN . '' '' 
DT NN VBZ TO VB DT NN NN , CC IN PRP , DT NN . DT NN VBZ JJ NN IN IN TO CD NNS IN DT JJ CD NNS , WDT DT NNS VBP IN DT JJ NN . CC NN PRP VBP VBN DT JJ NN IN IN DT NN DT NN , WDT VBZ DT JJ JJ NN , PRP VBZ NN TO VB , WP VBZ VBG IN RB . '' '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , WP VBD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP . CC NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD NNS CD CC CD . IN DT , JJ NNS CC JJ NNS VBP RB VBN . NNS VBP VBN TO VB IN NNP CD IN PRP VBP PRP$ JJ NNS , RB VB IN TO NNP CD RB . CC PRP VBZ RB TO NNP CD IN PRP VBP NNS , DT NN NNP NNP VBD VBN IN DT JJ . CC PRP VBP RB VB PRP IN NNP CD CC RB NN IN DT JJ NN NNS IN NNP CD CC CD , PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ RB JJR IN NNS , CC IN DT NN IN DT NN , IN PRP VBP VBG NN IN DT JJ PRP VBZ IN PRP VBP VBG JJR NNS IN PRP VBD RB . '' 
IN NNP NNP , NN NNP NNP VBZ VBP IN NN NN VBZ VBN IN RB CD NNS DT NN , CC DT JJ NN IN NNP . IN DT NNS , NN NN VBZ RBR RB IN IN JJ NNS IN DT NN . NNP , EX VBP CD NNS IN CD NNS , CC IN NNP , DT NN VBZ CD NNS IN CD NNS , CC IN NNP , CD NNS IN CD NNS . DT NN POS NN NN IN NN NN VBZ CD NNS IN CD NNS DT NN : IN NNP , CD NNS IN CD NNS CC IN NNP , CD NNS IN CD NNS . JJ NN , NNP VBD DT NNP JJ NN NN IN NN IN $ CD TO $ CD , CC DT VBZ JJR IN PRP VBZ DT NN TO VB DT NN , RB $ CD TO $ CD . CD IN DT NN PRP VBP , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' NNS VBP VBG DT NN , DT NN , DT NN , DT JJ NN CC DT NN WP NNS DT NNS CC VBZ DT NN . RB EX VBZ DT NN IN VBG DT NN NN , VBG CC VBG DT NNS CC JJ NNS . JJS NNS VBP RB IN PRP IN DT NN , CC PRP RB VBP TO VB . '' 
RB DT JJ NN VBZ JJ , PRP$ NN NN CC VBN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP . CC RB IN DT VBG NNS IN DT NNP IN NNP , DT NN IN JJ NNS VBP VBG PRP$ NN . PRP VBZ RB DT JJ NN IN NNP CC NNP , DT NN IN NNP VBD RB RB IN NNP VBD VBN IN CD . PRP VBZ VBN JJR IN CD NNS IN VBG VBD IN DT NN NNS TO DT RB NN , CC IN DT JJ NN , DT NN IN JJ NNS CC NNS RB VBZ RB VB RB DT JJS NN . CC VBZ RB JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP CC CD IN DT NN POS NN NNS IN VBG . RB CD NNS RB , JJS NNS VBD RB RB VB VBG VBD JJ , '' PRP VBD . MD RB , JJ NNS VBP VBN VBN : DT VBZ RB DT NN . VBG DT NN VBZ RB IN NN TO PRP . DT NN VBZ WRB VBP PRP VB DT NN . '' 
EX VBP RB RB JJ NNS VBG , VBZ NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP . RB NNS VBG IN , IN JJ NNS , DT NN MD VB VBN JJ IN NN , VBP RB VB WRB JJS TO VB NNS . NNS VBP RB DT JJ NN IN WRB CC WRB JJ NN NNS TO JJ NN CC WRB CC WRB TO VB , '' NNP NNP VBZ . VB PRP VBZ TO VBG NNS , '' VBZ NNP NNP , DT NNP NN , EX VBP IN JJ NN . '' DT NNP NNP DT VBZ JJ IN CD NNS VBG IN DT NN IN VBG . DT NNP NNP NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP NNP NN JJ NNP IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS IN NN CC NN VBD DT NN . NNS IN JJR NN VBP RBR JJ : RB RBR : TO VB VBN IN JJS CD JJ NN IN NN . 
EX VBZ DT NN IN PRP MD VB , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN NN , JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN , VBG JJ CC JJ NNS . IN DT NNS , NN IN DT NNS MD VB : NNS MD VB VBG NNS WDT VBP NNS , CC VBP VBG JJ NNS WDT VBP NN . RB , NN MD VB CD IN DT JJS NNS IN NN RB VBZ RB VBG , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . WRB VBG DT NNS , DT NN MD VB IN NNS VBP JJ NN NN CC NNS , IN NNS . VB JJ NN MD RB VB TO VB JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNP NN VBZ RBR JJ IN NNS WP VBP , VBP JJ CC JJ , RB VBG PRP TO VB NN , VB NN CC NN MD IN DT NNS VBP DT NN IN NN . CC EX VBP JJ NNS TO VB . DT NN VBD CD CC NNP NNP '' IN DT NN JJ NNP NNP VBD IN DT JJ NN MD VB VBN IN NNS IN NNS WP VBP PRP IN VBG JJ NNS . JJ JJ CC JJ NNS VBP JJ NNS , '' VBD DT NN , VBN IN CD . VBG JJ NNS IN JJ , NN CC NN NN VBZ RB RBR JJ '' IN VBG JJ RB . 
JJ VBP PRP MD RB VB NN IN NNP POS NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP WP VBZ VBN IN NNP NNP IN CD . NNP NNP VBZ PRP VBZ DT NNP . CC PRP$ NN IN DT NN . '' DT NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP VBD NNS VBG TO DT VBN NN NNS CC PRP$ NNS , VBD , '' VBP RP RB IN DT NN IN DT VBZ NN . '' JJ NNS VBP NN NNS '' IN VBZ DT NN VBN IN NN , VBD NNP NNP , WP , IN NNP NNP , VBZ DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP JJ NN . DT NN IN NNS NNP NNP NNS MD VB RB IN DT NN NN JJ IN NNS . PRP$ NN NN IN NN , VBG PRP$ JJ NN IN CD NNS RB JJ IN CD . PRP$ JJ NNS VBP VBN RP , VBG RP DT NN IN JJ NNS . PRP VBZ NNS IN VBG NN WDT MD JJ IN JJ NNS . PRP$ JJ RB VBP VBN IN JJ NNS , DT JJ NNS VBG IN PRP VBZ TO VB PRP RB . 
DT NN NN PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN WDT DT NN NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN DT JJ TO VB DT NNS CC NN IN DT NNS . NNP VBP JJ NNS TO VB , NN , VBG CC DT JJ NN IN DT NN . PRP VBZ DT JJ NNS , DT JJ CC JJ , WDT VBP JJR TO VB . NNS VBP VBN VBN IN IN NN MD VB DT NN POS NN , CC NNS VBP IN DT JJ JJ NN TO DT NN IN NNS IN DT JJ NN WP RB VBZ IN PRP VBZ JJ TO VB NNS . CC IN NN NNS VBP IN RB DT JJ NN IN NNS VBG TO VB IN NN , EX VBP NNS IN PRP MD VB NN TO DT JJR NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS . RB , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS CC NN NNS RP DT NN . '' 
NNP NNP NNP NNP CC JJ , NNP NNP ( NNP ) NNP NNP PRP VBP VBN IN DT JJ NN IN EX VBZ DT NN TO VB IN JJ JJ NN NNS VBP RB . CC PRP VBZ NN TO VB IN RP JJ . PRP VBD PRP IN DT NN IN NNS , CC PRP RB VBD VBN IN IN DT NN . NNP VBD IN , EX VBP RB NNS VBG IN CD NN IN NNS VBP PRP$ JJ NN NNS . IN PRP VBZ DT JJ NN . PRP VBP RB VB PRP , CC PRP VBP RB VB IN PRP VBP PRP RB JJ IN PRP MD . VB IN PRP VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ IN VBG IN DT IN DT JJ NN . IN PRP VBD IN JJ IN VBD NN VBD VBN TO VB NN CC NN , PRP MD RB RBR RB VB PRP . DT NN VBZ DT NN IN NNS IN CD VBG NNS DT CD CC CD NNS . IN NNS IN PRP$ CD POS , PRP VBP , VBP POS NN IN PRP . IN PRP VBZ RB VB , PRP MD VB IN DT NN IN VBG JJ NNS . 
NNS VBD RBR JJ , VBG RP IN VBG NNS IN DT NN WP MD VB VBN VBZ DT NN IN JJ NNS , RB NN IN DT NN . CC VB TO VB NN IN PRP VBP TO VB VB WP VBZ DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP POS NNP CC NNP NNP NNP CC DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP , VBG TO DT NN IN NN VBN IN DT NN VBD . VB DT NN , PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NNS PRP , WDT PRP VBP VBZ DT RB JJ NN . '' CC RB , NNP NNP VBD , WRB DT NNS VBD DT NN , '' NN VBD JJ . '' IN NN , NNP NNP VBD , RB IN DT JJ NN VBD IN DT NN VBD DT NN IN DT NN IN JJR NNS IN PRP VBD PRP$ NN IN DT NN , CC RB IN EX VBD DT NN IN VBG DT JJ NN NN , DT NN MD RB RB VB DT NN . NNP POS NN VBZ RB RB DT NN IN DT JJ , PRP VBD , VBG IN RB IN CD NN IN NNS WP MD VB NNS IN DT NN VBP JJR IN CD . 
NNP NNP , IN CD IN CD : DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP CC JJ NN IN NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN NN NNS , VBD PRP VBD JJ IN NNP NNP POS NN IN DT JJR JJ NNS , CC PRP VBD JJ IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN NNS . '' VBD DT CD NNS TO VB DT NNS CC PRP VBD PRP RP DT NN , '' PRP VBD . NNS RB VBP RB VB NNS IN JJ NNS CC NNS , WDT VBP JJ TO VBG WRB CC WRB CC WRB NN VBZ . '' CC NNP NNP VBD : NN MD RB VB NNS . DT NNS VBP TO VB NN NN NNS RB RB , CC PRP VBP TO VB IN CD NN CC NN TO DT . DT NN VBZ JJ . PRP VBP TO VB IN NN , VBG JJ CC JJ NNS , VBG RB TO PRP$ NNS CC NNS . '' DT NN NNS VBD VBN VBG DT NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN WDT MD VB CC VB NNS , VBP DT NNS IN JJ NNS CC NN IN NNS VBN IN JJ NN NNS . 
NN VBZ RB DT JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN CC VBG NN VBN IN NN NNS CC NNP NNS . CC NN VBZ VBG DT JJ NN IN DT NN , IN JJ IN DT NN VBG TO NNS POS NNS IN NNP CC NNP . NN NN DT NN $ CD CD IN CD , VBG TO DT NN JJ NN IN NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . IN JJ NNS DT NNS IN NN NNS , VBN NN , NN CC NN NNS . PRP VBZ RB VB $ CD CD IN JJ NN IN JJ NNS CC NNS . JJ NN IN NN IN NN VBD JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBD NN , VBG JJR NNS IN NN . PRP VBZ IN NNS WP VBP JJ VBD RBR JJ , CC DT WP VBD JJ VBD RBR RB . '' 
NNP NN NNS VBP TO VB DT NN JJR IN NNS IN JJ NNS , NNS VBP , CC PRP VBP DT MD VB IN DT NN NN NNS VBP PDT DT JJ , JJ NN IN JJ NNS IN NN . DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN NN NN IN IN PRP$ JJ NN NN , IN DT NN RB VBZ IN NNS IN JJ NNS , IN PRP VBP DT JJ NNS IN NN , DT NNS VBD . DT NNS VBP IN DT NN IN JJ NN : WP DT NNS VBP JJ NN '' CC , IN NNP , '' NN '' : VBZ IN DT NN IN DT NN . IN CD IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NN NN , NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP VBD IN NNS WP VBD JJ NN IN NN NN VBD CD CC DT JJ NNS IN JJ TO VB NNS IN JJ NN IN NN NN NNS WP VBD VBN VBN IN NN CC NN CC DT NN . 
NNP NN NNS RB VBP VBN . JJ NNS VBP TO VB NN IN NN NNS . RB , DT VBZ JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN . IN DT JJ NN IN NN NN NNS IN NNP , RB CD NN IN DT NNS CC CD NN IN DT NNS IN CD VBD VBN JJ NN NN NNS . NNP , JJR IN DT JJ IN JJR NNS VBP VBD PRP$ NN VBN IN DT JJ CD NNS IN NN NN , CD IN DT JJ NNS IN NN NN . RB CD NN VBP RB VBD DT NN , RB IN JJ NN VBZ IN VBG DT NN RBR RB MD VB JJR JJ NNS . IN JJ NN NNS , RB JJ NN NNS , WDT VBZ IN JJ NN NNS NN VBP RBR JJ IN RB TO VB JJ IN VBG DT NN IN NN . IN DT NN VBN IN NNP IN CD NNS IN CD JJ NNS , NNS VBD IN DT JJ NN IN CD JJ NNS , VBG NNS , NN CC NN , VBD JJ NNS RB RB JJR IN PDT DT NN . VBP NNS VBG NNS IN PRP$ JJ NNS . 
IN RB VBN NNS CC NNS , VBG JJ NN CC NN NNP MD VB DT CD NN NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NNS . CC RB DT VBN CD NN IN NNS ( CC CD NN IN NNS ) VBZ CD TO CD VB DT JJ NN IN CD NNS IN NN DT NN . CC NN IN NNS VBZ IN NN NN VBZ RB NN IN PRP$ NN , CC PRP$ NNS POS , CC RB RB PRP$ NNS POS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP CC NN IN DT NNS POS NN NN . CC NNS , NN NN VBZ VBN IN JJ NNS IN NN NN CC NN CC IN VBZ DT NN IN VBG JJ NN IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . JJ NNS IN JJR NN NN VBP VBG CC VBG NN RB ( JJR IN CD NNS DT NN ) . VBG JJ NN RBR IN NN MD RB VB TO VB NN NN . IN NNS IN CD , RB CD NN IN NNS ( CC CD NN IN NNS ) VBP DT JJ NN IN NN . 
NNP NNP VBD : CD VBP DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NN , WRB PRP VBD VBG NNS TO DT NN NN IN JJ NNS WRB PRP VBD NN JJ IN DT NN . DT NN PRP VBP NNS RB VBZ RB RBR JJ . '' NNP NNP CC DT NNS WP VBD VBN IN DT NN VBD IN DT NNP NN RB VBD DT NN IN DT NNS , NNS WP VBP RB VBN JJ NN IN NN . CC PRP RB VBD IN , IN JJ , DT NN MD VB VBG RB TO DT NNS IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ RB RB RB RB . JJ IN PRP , WP VBZ DT JJ NN RB . '' '' NNP NNP VBD . EX VBZ DT NN IN NN IN DT NN NN VBZ RB IN JJ CC JJ IN PRP MD VB PRP TO VB . '' VBD IN DT NN IN DT NNP NN , NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD . NNP NNP POS NN VBZ DT NN IN RBR JJ NN CC NN IN JJ NNS , WP VBP RB IN NN NN NN . 
NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBZ IN NN VBD RB IN PRP$ NN IN JJ NN , WDT VBD PRP TO NN NN CC NN . RBR DT NN , PRP VBD DT NN VBG IN JJ CC NN NN IN JJ IN NN IN NN CD CC CD VBP NNS IN DT NN IN NN . CC JJ VBZ DT NNS IN JJ JJ NNS RB : NNS CC NN NN , IN NN , RB TO VB JJ NNS : CC DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN DT NN IN VBG NNS , IN NN IN DT NN IN NN CC JJ NN RB MD RB VB DT NN , RB . DT NNP CC NNP NN TO DT NN NN IN DT JJS NN IN DT NN IN NN VBZ RB VB RB TO VBN JJ NN , DT NN WRB VBG DT JJ NN . CC VBP PRP VBZ JJ IN NNS VBP VBN RP TO DT NN NNS , '' NNP VBZ . 
JJ NNS WDT JJR NNP . NNS VBP JJ , NN CC NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD : NNS RB VBN TO VB NN NN NN . NNS VBP VBN IN NN NNS , VBN TO VB NN , MD RB VB NNP . DT NN VBZ DT VBG NN IN VBZ MD VB VBN TO VB NN NNS RB IN NNS WP$ NN NNS VBP JJ . CC NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN VBD RB RB JJ TO VB JJ NN IN NNS . PRP VBD PRP VBD RB TO VB DT JJ NN IN NNS IN NNS IN JJ NN CC JJ JJ NN NNS . NN MD RB VB JJ IN NNS . NNP NNP CC NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNP . NNS VBP VBN IN DT JJ NN IN VBG NNP CD NNS : DT NN WDT VBZ IN NNS . IN NNS , JJ NN NN : DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN : MD VB NN IN DT JJ NN . NNP NNS VBP NNS , DT NNS WDT VBP NN . NNS VBP VBN IN NNS WP VBP NNP CD NNS VBP RB JJ NNS IN DT NNS . NNS VBP DT NNS MD VB IN DT NN POS NN TO VB PRP$ JJ NN , RB VBG IN NNS . 
DT JJ NNS IN NN VBD VBN RB NN , IN NNS IN NNS IN DT RBS RB VBD VBN NNS VBP RB VBN . DT NN IN DT NNP NNP POS NNP NN NN VBD VBN IN JJ CC JJ NN , IN VBD CD JJ NNS IN DT NNP NN . IN DT NNP NNP NN VBD NNS PRP VBD RB VBN TO DT NNP NN , DT NNP NNP POS JJ NN NN , NNP NNP , VBD NN IN VBZ $ CD NN '' VBD IN DT JJ NN TO NNP NNP POS NN : WDT NNS VBD VBD VBN RB RB IN PRP VBD TO VB VBN IN NNS : NN NN IN DT NN NN , CC IN EX VBD JJ NNS WDT VBP RB VBN VBN . NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NN , VBD DT NNP NNP VBD VBG DT NN IN NNS WP MD VB IN DT NN POS PRP VBZ VBN JJ '' TO VB IN NNS CC NNS WDT MD VB VBN VBN IN NN . 
NN VBD VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . VBG DT NN , PRP MD VB DT NN IN RB PRP VBP RB JJ . IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBP IN RB EX VBZ NN RB . '' PRP VBZ RB VBG DT JJ NN IN NNS IN CD NNS TO VB IN PRP VBZ JJ NNS . CC NNP NNP CC NNS RB VB RP IN VBG NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN . NN VBZ DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . '' MD VB IN NNP VBP JJ IN PRP VBP RP DT NN . DT VBZ DT JJ NN . '' DT NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN IN NN CC JJ NN NNS , NN TO VB CC NNS TO VB NNS IN VBG NN MD VB DT NN . NNP NNP VBD JJ DT NN , IN JJ CC JJ NNS IN CD NNS . PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NNS CC DT NN IN DT NNS . 
NNP NNP VBD IN IN RB CD NN IN DT CD JJ NNS VBD DT JJ NN TO DT NN . VBZ DT RB VB IN NNS VBP IN JJ DT JJR IN NN IN NN . IN DT NN , DT . PRP DT VBZ IN WRB NN VBZ VBN CC WP NN IN JJ NNS VBP VBN IN DT JJ NNS . IN DT NN IN NNP , WDT MD VB VBN IN DT JJ NN NN , DT NN IN NN VBZ JJ : PRP VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ VBN VBN IN DT NN IN NNS IN JJ NN , JJ NN , JJ NN CC NN . RB CD JJ NNS WP VBP DT JJ IN NNS IN PRP$ NNS MD VB RB RB JJ . TO VB IN DT NN , DT NN VBZ DT TO VB JJ NNS IN NN CC TO VB DT JJ NN NN , WDT VBZ IN NN TO VB . CC JJ NNS WP VBP IN JJ JJ NNS VBP DT RB JJ NN WP VBP RB JJ IN JJ NNS IN JJ . IN NN , PRP VBP VB RB RB CC RB JJ CC VBP RB RB JJ . CC PRP RB VBP RB JJ IN JJ JJ CC JJ NN WDT VBP JJ IN DT JJ NN . 
NNP NNP VBD : NN VBP DT NN : NN VBZ WP VBZ VBG TO PRP . WRB PRP VBP VBG NNS IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN , PRP VBP VBG DT NN IN PRP$ NN IN PRP MD RB VB RBR IN DT NN . '' '' DT NN RB VBD JJR IN $ CD DT NN IN DT NN VBN NN NNS . NNP NNP POS NNS , VBN IN DT NNS , VBD DT NN IN JJR NNS , CC EX VBP RB CD IN NNP NNP NNS IN DT NNP NN , IN CD JJR VBN TO VB IN NNP , VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NN . RB , NNS VBP VBN VBG IN NN NNS IN NNS WP DT VBP CD JJ NN , IN NN , VBZ CC NN . NNS VBP VBG RB VBN NN NNS IN DT IN DT JJ NN POS NNS : RB DT IN JJ NNS IN NN : WP VBP JJ NN IN DT NN CC IN DT NN NN JJ , IN DT NN NN CC NN , WP RB VBZ JJ IN DT NNS . 
NN VBD RB CC VBD , NNP , NN IN DT NNS , VB POS VB VBP DT NN , '' CC VBD TO VB PRP RP IN PRP , '' PRP VBD . CC , PRP VBD , IN DT IN DT NNS VB PRP IN NNS , PRP VBZ PRP PRP VBP JJ . VB DT NN VBZ PRP , PRP VBP , VBP , PRP VBP CD . PRP VBP VBG RB JJ NN RB RB , RB NN IN NN , VBP DT NN CC NN RP IN DT NN . '' '' NNP VBZ NNS IN $ CD IN NN CC NN NNS . EX VBZ DT NNP NNP NN , DT NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP CC DT NNP NNP NNP NNP . NNP NN VBZ DT JJ NNS IN NN , NNS CC NNS IN NNS . JJ NNS VBP VBN IN NNS IN NN NNS , CC JJS JJ NNS VBP IN JJS CD IN CD NNS . NNP NNS RB VBP JJ NN CC MD RB VB JJ NN . NNP VBZ DT JJ NN VBD IN NN CC NN WDT VBZ NN NN CC NN . NNP VBZ DT NN VBN IN DT JJ NN CC VBZ VBN IN NNS IN NN . CC NN VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ RB DT RBS JJ JJ NN IN JJ NNS VBN TO VB NN . DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBZ VBN IN NN MD VB JJ NN NNS . 
PRP VBD PRP DT NN IN NN , CC IN VBG PRP$ NNS , PRP VBD IN PRP$ NN CC VBD RP DT JJ NN . NNP JJ NN IN DT NN VBD IN DT JJ NN VBD DT NN IN NN IN RB JJ IN CD NN IN DT JJ CD NNS , CC DT NN IN DT IN DT JJ NN . PRP VBD RB TO DT NN IN DT JJ NN . PRP$ NN MD VB PRP$ NN DT JJ NN , VBN DT JJ NN IN DT NN . VBG IN DT NN POS NN , VBG PRP$ NN CC PRP$ NN , PRP VBD RB RB DT NN WDT VBZ JJ TO VB IN DT NN IN NN . CC RB , RB IN PRP VBD RP NNS , PRP VBD TO VB DT WP VBZ JJ RB MD VB , IN VBP RB JJ NNS IN DT JJ . IN DT NN , JJ NNS IN DT JJ CC JJ NN IN NN . PRP VBP JJ , CC PRP$ NN VBZ DT JJ NN CC VBZ RP WRB TO VB PRP RB . PRP VBP RB RB IN . CC EX VBP NNS IN NN WDT NN DT NN . CC RB , RB RB , WRB NN VBZ VBN , PRP VBZ JJ IN PRP$ NN IN NN VBZ VBG RB , VBG RB . NNP NN POS NNS CC NNS VBP DT JJ NN CC RB VB DT JJ . PRP VBZ WRB NN VBZ VBN IN NN , CD NN IN DT NN . 
IN DT NN MD RB VB DT JJ NN IN DT $ JJ JJ NN , PRP VBD VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN . CC JJ NN VBD VBN PRP IN PRP$ NN NNS VBD VBG TO VB PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , DT NN VBN IN DT NN NN WDT VBD RP JJ NNS VBG DT JJ NN NN '' VBD DT NN . CD NNS VBP IN VBG VBN VBZ RB DT RB JJR IN VBG JJ , '' PRP VBD IN DT NN . IN DT NN POS NNP NN , NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN IN NNS . CD DT IN PRP WP VBP DT JJ NN IN NNS CC VBP RB VB TO VB VBN IN WP TO VB , NNS VBP VBG RP , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP , DT NNP IN NNP NN NN WP VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN , VBD IN DT NN MD VB DT NN . 
VBG TO VB NN NNS IN DT JJ NN VBZ RB DT JJ NN . DT NNP . VBZ NNS CC NNS , VBG NNS JJ TO NN NN VBG JJ NNS IN JJ NNS IN PRP VBP PRP RB JJ . NNS IN DT NNP . NNS VBP TO NNS VBN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP CC DT NNP IN NNP NNP , WDT VBD IN NNP . POS JJ VBD NN NNS IN CD NN NN IN NNS VBD PRP IN CD NN NN . JJ NNS VBP VBG NNS TO VB DT NN IN DT NNS VBP RB RB VB NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP , NNP , WP VBD IN DT NNP . NN WDT VBD NN NNS CC VBD IN NN . PRP VBD IN DT NN VBN IN CD IN DT JJ NNP IN NNP NNP , WDT VBD NN IN DT NN NNS IN NNS IN NNS , MD VB IN DT NN IN NNS TO VB JJ NNS . '' VBP RB VBG IN NN VBZ JJ , '' PRP VBD . MD VBP VBG IN PRP VBP RB VB DT NNS TO VB RB . '' 
NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP , VBD DT NN VBD VBG VBG JJ NNS . 
NNP VBD TO VB RB VBN JJ NN , WDT VBD RB DT JJ NN . PRP VBZ NN WDT VBZ RB VBN VBN IN NNS . IN PRP VBP PRP WP RB VBZ DT NN RB , PRP MD VB IN DT NNS IN DT NNP NN VBP VBN PRP RBR RB IN DT NNP NN . DT NN IN JJ NN VBD JJ IN NNP POS JJS JJ NNS IN VBG IN DT NN . NNP . NNP PRP RB JJ IN NNP NNP IN PRP VBD DT NN IN NNS IN JJ NN NN NN . NN PRP MD VB TO VB PRP PRP VBD NN . PRP VBD RB . WRB PRP$ NNS VBD VBN , PRP VBP PRP RB . PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN CC DT NN IN WDT PRP MD VB DT JJ NN . PRP VBD RB VBN DT NNS PRP . CC PRP VBD RB VB WRB JJ PRP MD VB IN NNS . PRP VBD NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS JJ NNS . PRP VBD RB VB RB , RB CC JJ CC NN IN DT . 
POS VBP RB IN DT NN IN DT NN , '' NNP . NNP VBD . VB PRP VBZ RB JJ . '' 
DT NNS VBP DT NNS IN DT JJ NNS IN NN . RB , IN CD CD NNS VBP RB VBG NN NN NN , DT VBZ IN RB CD NNS IN NN ( IN DT NNS , NN ) NN NNS . ( NNPS JJR NNS VBP NN RB , IN WDT DT NN VBZ RB RB JJ . ) PRP RB VBZ IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN NNS IN DT NN IN NN . NNP NNP POS JJ NN IN DT NNP . NN PRP IN NNS POS NN VBD RB RB VBN IN DT NN . IN DT NNS DT NN IN NNS POS NN VBD RB VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS '' IN DT NN IN NN . IN CD , WRB NNP NNP VBD VBN NN IN DT NNP , NNS VBD RB VBN IN JJ NNS , DT NN IN PRP VBD . RB NNS VBN IN DT NNP . MD VB DT NNS IN DT NN VBG VBN NNS NNS RB RB IN NNS . 
NNP VBZ DT NN IN JJR NNS VBN TO PRP IN DT NN WDT VBZ JJR NNS IN PRP . VB NN VBZ RB RB RBR JJ . EX VBZ RB DT JJ NN NN IN JJ NN NN . PRP VBP TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT NNS WP VBP VBG DT JJ NN IN DT NN . DT VBZ RB VBG . PRP VBP DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS . PRP VBP DT NNS WP VBP RB CC RB VB DT JJS NN IN NN . PRP VBP VBG DT NN TO VB JJ NNS . NNP IN PRP VBP VBN TO VB DT JJ NN CC VB IN JJ NN IN EX VBZ RB JJ JJ NN IN PRP . 
WRB MD VB DT NN RB IN DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . CC PRP RB VBD IN NN VBD RB CD IN JJ NN NNS WDT MD VB IN NN VBN IN DT NNS . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP POS NNP NNP , VBD IN NNP NNP , VBG DT JJ NN NN , '' CC VBG IN DT NNS VBP TO VB RB RBR JJ TO NNP . POS IN NNS , CC IN NNS , RB , MD VB VBN IN NN TO DT NN IN NN . 
DT NN WDT MD VB CD IN DT RBS JJ JJ NN NNS IN DT NN VBZ VBG NNS RB IN PRP VBZ VBN , IN PRP$ NN , NNP , VBZ TO VB PRP RB IN NN IN DT NN POS JJ NN NN , NNP . IN DT NN NN IN NNP , NNP , NN , NNS VBN IN NNP VBP VBN TO VB JJ JJ NNS IN DT NN , WDT VBZ VBN VBN IN JJ NNS TO RB VB NNS IN WP VBZ VBN IN JJ NN , DT JJ NN TO VBG NN NN . DT JJ NN , VBN NN , RB MD VB JJ NNS IN PRP VBZ VBN , VBG NNS IN PRP MD VB NN NN , DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN NN . PRP MD RB VB DT NN IN CD , IN DT JJS . RB , NNS VBP DT NN MD VB DT JJ JJ NN , IN NNP NNP VBZ PRP$ NN IN JJ IN DT NN IN NNP , DT NN POS JJS NN NN . 
EX VBP IN JJS CD CD NNS IN DT NN WP VBP VBG PRP , WP VBD . '' IN DT JJ JJ NNS PRP VBP VBN NNS CC NN NNS , VBD TO VB NNS CC VBD TO NNS CC NNS : DT IN WP VBD PRP IN VBG JJ NN NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NNS MD VB PRP JJ . RB CD JJ NN NN , PRP$ NN VBN . PRP$ JJ JJ NN VBD RB DT NN IN NN CC DT NN IN NN . WRB MD DT VB . WP VBD VBZ IN JJ NN , IN PRP RB RB VBZ , VBD RB IN JJ NN . PRP VBD NNS CC JJ NNS : CC RB VBD TO VB PRP . PRP VBP IN JJ NNS , IN WDT NNS VBP IN NNS IN NNS TO VB IN PRP MD VB DT NNS IN NN . CC PDT DT NN MD VB VBZ VB NNS : PRP MD RB VB NN CC NN . 
NNS VBP EX VBP RB JJ JJ VBG NNS , VBG JJ NN NNS CC NNS IN DT JJ NN , JJ NN NN TO DT NN IN NN CC NN NN . WDT DT NN , DT NN VBZ RB JJ IN NN NNS CC NNS VBP VBN DT NN IN PRP : JJ NN . DT RB VBP RB RB IN TO VB DT NNS TO VB JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN NN . CD JJ JJ WP PRP MD RB VB RB JJ IN VBG , PRP MD VB TO VB RB CC IN JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNP , VBG TO JJ NN NNS CC NN NNS WDT VBP RP JJ NNS IN NN . JJ NNS VBP PRP VBP DT NN IN NNS WP RB VBP DT NN IN JJ NN . DT NNS VBP DT IN DT JJ NNS IN NN NN MD RB VB IN NN , WDT IN NNS WDT VBP JJ NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT NN . 
NNS RB VBP IN NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN IN NN NNS WDT VBZ NNS TO VB VBG IN DT JJ NN . IN DT NNS , RB , DT NN VBZ RB NNS IN DT NN CC RB DT NN POS VBG VBN IN CC RP RB . NN MD VB RB DT JJ NN . PRP VBZ DT RBR JJ IN PRP MD VB PRP TO VB , '' NNP NNP VBD . RB , IN DT NN POS MD VB NN NN , EX VBZ NN IN NNS MD VB VB PRP . NNS CC JJ NNS VBP VBG DT JJ NNP NNP NNP '' TO VB TO VB PDT DT JJ NNS VBN TO NN . DT NN MD RB VB VBN TO VB IN NN POS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN CC DT NN IN NNP . NNP RBR NN IN WRB NNS VBP CC VB MD VB TO JJ NNS . PRP MD VB JJ , IN NN , TO VB RP NN POS WDT VBP TO VB NN . 
VBG TO DT NNPS IN NNP NNP CC NNP , CD NN IN DT NNS WP VBP RB VBN NN VBP VBN IN JJS CD NN NN . NNP , RB CD CD NNS RB VBP DT NN NN NN . PRP MD VB RB IN DT NN WDT VBZ TO VB JJ NN TO VB JJ NN TO NN . RB , NNS VBP RB IN DT NN IN DT NN : IN DT NN NNS IN JJ NNS IN NN , IN DT NN IN WDT PRP VBP , IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . WRB VBZ DT VBG . WP VBZ DT NN IN DT NN TO NN WDT VBZ VBN RB JJ DT NN IN JJ NN . CD VBG NN VBZ DT NNP NNP , CC RB NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP$ JJ CC JJ NN VBN NNPS IN DT NN , RB DT JJ . DT NN IN NNS DT NN VBD IN CD CC CD IN DT NN IN DT NN '' : PRP$ NN IN DT JJ JJ , JJ CC JJ NN : VBZ VBN DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NN . 
IN NN NN CC PRP$ JJ NN VBG IN , NNP NNP , CD , VBD RP DT NN , VBG DT JJ JJ NN CC PRP$ NN JJ RB . NNP NNP VBD IN PRP$ NN NNS . NNP NNP VBD PRP$ JJ NN CC JJ NNS . '' VBP VBG TO VB PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP , VBG DT CD NNS VBD IN NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP NN NN RB . PRP MD RB VB . PRP VBP VBG TO VB PRP VBG RP DT NN . '' JJ NN VBN TO VB NN NNS VBP CC VBN IN , VBG IN NNS IN DT NN IN NN CC VBG IN NN IN JJ NNS . CC IN NNP NNS RB VBP CC NN NN NNS IN FW NNP '' VBG DT NN , NN CC JJ NN , PRP VBD RB JJ IN RB RB JJ NNS MD VB VBG PRP IN JJ '' NNS CC NNS MD VB VBG RP PRP$ NNS IN NNS IN DT NN NN . 
DT NN VBD NN VBD IN JJ NN TO DT NN VBD IN JJ NNS , VBG NN , NN CC NN TO JJ NNS , VBG NNS CC RB JJ CC NN . WDT MD VB WRB RB DT NNS VBP VBN NNS . CD MD RB VB IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN NNP . MD VB CC MD VB IN DT NN IN JJ CC JJ NNS VBN IN DT '' NNS , NNP NNP VBZ . NNS CC NNS POS NNS VBP RB VBN TO VB RB , RB RB IN JJ JJ NNS VBN TO NNS IN DT NN , IN CD IN DT JJ NNS IN DT RB JJ NNS VBD TO VB NN NN . JJ NNS IN DT NNP CC NNP VBD PRP IN JJ CC VBD IN JJ NN IN DT NN POS NNS . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT IN NNP IN DT NNP WP VBZ DT NNP POS JJ NN VBG JJ NN NNS , VBD DT NNP VBD RB VBN JJ NNS IN NN NN , VBG NNP POS , IN IN DT NNS . PRP VBD DT NNP VBD RB VBG $ CD CD IN JJ NN IN DT JJ NNS VBN IN NNP POS NN . 
JJ IN NN . VBN IN NN . RB VB DT : DT JJ NN IN NN , VBN IN DT NN , WDT VBZ VBN IN IN JJ NNS NNP CC NNP . PRP MD VB IN DT JJ NN IN NNS , CC IN NN PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP POS NNP IN NNP NNP NNP . IN NNS VBG RB VB PRP$ NN , JJ NNS MD CD NN VB DT NNS IN DT NN IN VBG JJ NNS . DT VBG IN DT NN VBZ RB RB NN IN PRP MD RB VB . WP VBZ DT NNP CC NNP . RB JJ RB VBZ TO VB PRP VB NNS IN VBG DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NN . NNP , IN NN , PRP VBP IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NN : NN IN PRP VBP DT NN TO VB DT JJ JJ NN . PRP MD VB JJ , CC RB VBG IN CD NN VBZ PRP$ NNS VB RP IN NN TO DT NN WRB PRP MD VB IN JJ NNS . NNP NN NN , WDT VBZ IN VBG VBN NNS IN RB JJ NNS . IN DT NN IN JJ NN , DT NN WDT MD RB VB DT NN VBZ VBN IN IN DT NN , CC DT JJ NN VBZ VBN IN PRP$ NN . DT NNS MD RB VB DT JJ NNS . EX VBZ DT RBR NN , CC DT NN NNS VBP . 
CC NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN NNS VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NN . CC VBP IN IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN CC PRP VBP RB VB DT NN TO VB NN , PRP MD RB VB JJ VBG PRP DT PRP$ NNS , '' PRP VBD . CC MD VB PRP VBZ RB VBG CC RB VBG NN TO DT NN . '' NNP NNP NNP NNP VBZ DT JJ NN CC DT NN IN NNP NNP . 
IN PRP$ JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD DT NNS IN CD JJ JJR NNS . RB PRP VBD JJ NNS IN VBG IN NN , '' NN , '' PRP , '' NN '' CC VBD '' CC VBD PRP RB . PRP$ NNS VBD JJR CC PRP RB VBD RBR . JJ , PRP VBD JJ NNS IN NN , '' PRP , '' PRP , '' VBN '' CC POS . '' DT NN , PRP$ NNS POS NNS VBD JJR , CC PRP$ NN NNS VBD . NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD TO DT JJ NN IN DT NNS IN NNS IN VBG . IN PRP$ NNS , JJR NNS VBD RB JJR IN NN NNS IN PRP VBD RB VBN NN WDT MD VB TO VB VBG NNS . PRP MD VB RB JJ IN VBG DT NN VBD IN WRB JJ NNS VBG CC NN . PRP VBD JJR IN NN NNS IN NNP NNP RB VBD PRP NN JJ , IN VBG IN EX VBD RB JJ IN DT NN IN NN IN NN . 
DT JJ NN VBD IN DT NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN NN . NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP WP VBD DT NNP NNP NN , VBD RB NN WRB PRP VBD CD CC RB WRB PRP VBD CD , IN PRP VBD RB IN DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . CC NNP NNP VBZ DT JJS NN IN DT NN IN NNP NNP , '' PRP VBD , VBZ JJS IN PRP VBP JJ NNS . CC PRP VBP IN NNP POS NN , DT RBS JJ NN IN DT NN CC PRP VBP RB VBG . PRP RB VBP TO VB RP WP VBZ VBG PRP . '' NNP NNP VBZ DT NNS . NNS VBP RB JJ TO JJ NN NNS , '' PRP VBD , '' PRP VBP JJ IN NN IN DT NN PRP VBP , DT NN PRP VBP CC DT NN PRP VBP VBZ VBG PRP$ NN . PRP VBP TO VB RB . '' PRP VBD PRP VBD VBN DT NNS WP PRP$ NN VBD IN NNS IN JJ JJ NNS , VBP PRP DT VBD PRP : DT NN . '' 
POS VBP VBG JJR IN DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNPS IN NNP FW NNP , NNP POS NN IN DT EX VBZ JJR NN IN NN NN IN JJ . DT NN MD VB PRP$ CC PRP$ JJ NN . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN TO VB DT NN NN NN . '' IN JJ NNS CC IN JJ NN IN NNS , DT NN MD VB DT NN CC NN IN NNS , IN VBN WRB CD NNS VBD NNP NNP POS NN RB , DT NNS . PRP VBD DT NN NN CC CD VBD DT NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , CD IN NN DT NN VBD , MD PRP VB PRP IN IN PRP$ CC VB PRP IN PRP . '' PRP VBZ DT NN DT JJ NN . '' PRP RB MD VB IN DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN . CC JJ MD VB JJ : PRP MD VB RB DT JJ IN WP VBD VBN TO PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN NN IN NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . 
NN : VB NNP NN WDT VBZ JJ JJ JJ NNS ( IN DT VBN IN NNP ) WDT VBD NNS VB JJ NNS RB RB IN JJ NN . NNS IN DT JJ NNS VBP RB VB TO VB NNP NNS . CC PRP MD VB DT NN : WDT VBZ VBN IN IN DT NN CC NN RB IN NN : TO VB DT NN . 
CC DT NNS VBP IN DT NNS VBD VBN IN JJ JJ NN NNS IN RB PDT DT NNS , WP VBD NNS CC NNS , VBG NNS CC JJ NNS . DT NNS , DT NNS VBD , VB PRP VB , CC JJ NN VBZ . DT NN VBD RB CD NNS , CC EX VBZ NN IN NN NN MD VB JJ JJ NNS : IN NNS PRP MD RB VB VBG CC VB DT NN NN , CC NNS VBP PRP MD VB DT NN IN NNS . IN NNS , NN NN MD VB NN , CC DT NNS VBP IN DT JJ NNS WDT VBD JJ IN DT NN MD VB TO VB IN DT NN VBD VBN . '' VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT JJ NN , WDT VBZ VBG VBN NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP . CC , NNP NNP VBD , '' VBP RB VB DT VBZ JJ IN JJ NN RB . '' 
WP VBD DT NNS VBP IN JJ NNS VBD DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN VBG IN NNS MD VB TO VB IN WRB NN VBD VBN RP . IN CD NN IN NNS , NNS VBD IN VBG JJ NNS IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN VBD DT NNS TO VB VBG CC VBG RB . IN JJ NNS , NN NNS IN NN NNS , NNS CC NN VBD PRP TO VB RB IN PRP$ JJ NN NNS . PDT DT VBD PRP VB JJ IN NNS MD RB VB DT NN TO VB JJ NN RB RB . CC RB DT JJ NN NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN VBD JJ NN IN NNP , DT JJ NN . NNS IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP VBD IN NNS WP$ JJ NN VBD JJ CC VBD JJ NNS IN NN NN VBD RB JJR NNS IN JJ NN : CC IN DT JJ NN . DT JJ NN VBD NN CC NN , VBD VBN NNS CC JJ NNS , CC VBD NN . PRP$ NN VBD NN , CC PRP$ NNS VBD JJR TO VB . PRP VBD JJ JJR IN JJ NN . 
NNP NNP VBD JJ . JJS NNS PRP VBZ IN NN IN IN CD CC CD NNS CC VB CD CC JJR NNS TO VB DT NN . DT VBD TO JJ RB CD NNS CC VB IN CD NNS . PRP VBD CC DT NN VBD IN NNP NNP IN NNP RB RB VB DT NNS IN DT NN VBD IN NN . PRP VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP . NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NNS IN DT NN . WRB PRP VBD DT NN , PRP VBD VBN . CD NNS VBN . DT NN . JJR IN VBZ VBN VBN IN DT NN . PRP RB VBD RP PRP$ NN . DT VBZ RB RB JJ CC JJ . '' POS RB , DT NN VBZ VBN TO VB NN IN VBG JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , VBG TO NNP . VBG . CC PRP VBP DT JJ NN JJ RB , DT NNS VBP RB VB RP IN DT NN VBZ . DT VBZ PRP MD RB VB DT NN IN DT NN IN DT NN . '' 
RB NNP NN . JJ NNP . NNP NNP JJ NN . JJ NNP IN NN . CC RB VBP DT NNS IN VBG CC NNS : NN NNP NN MD VB JJ JJ NNS . JJ NNS WP VBP IN VBN NN MD VB JJ NNS RB DT NN , RB RB IN DT JJ NN CC NNP NN NN RB . PRP MD VB TO VB VBG DT NN , VBD DT JJ NN . NN IN RB , NNS WP VBP IN JJ NN IN JJ NN VBP RB VBN TO VB VBG NNS IN JJR NNS VBP PRP$ NN IN JJ NN . NNP NNP NNP NNP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNP POS NNP CC NN : NNP NN . 
JJ NNS VBP DT NN IN DT NN VBD NN , WDT VBZ TO NN CC NN . IN NN VBZ DT NN TO NN NNS CC NNS , VBG PRP MD VB JJ IN VBG JJ NNS . RB , EX VBZ RB NN IN DT NNP NN VBZ VB NN NN , IN VBG PRP MD VB TO DT NNS WDT VBP NN NNS CC NNS . IN NNS IN DT JJ NN , EX VBP RB NNS IN WRB NNP VBD RB VB DT NN IN NNP RB . NNP NNP VBD IN NNP VBD DT NNS IN DT NNP NN IN NN NNS CD NNS RB . CC DT NN VBD JJ IN DT NNS , RB IN NNP VBD VBN IN DT NN IN NNP CD . RB , NNP VBD IN NNP VBD JJ CC IN EX VBD DT NN IN DT NN NN . CC VBP CD MD RB VB PRP$ NN TO DT NNP NN , WRB PRP RB VBD DT NN IN DT NN NN , IN JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
IN DT NN IN VBN JJ NN NNS , IN NN CC NN NN , DT NN VBD CD JJ NNS , VBG IN PRP VBD JJ IN DT NN IN VBG DT VBN NN CC NNS IN DT NN IN NNS IN NN . '' IN VBG DT NN IN DT NN , NNP NNP , DT NN NN CC NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN , VBD IN , VBG IN PRP VBZ IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN VBG DT NN IN DT NN . '' VBZ VBZ DT RB JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC PRP VBD IN PRP VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBD VBN RB IN DT NN IN DT NN IN NN , IN NNS VBG NNS TO VB NNS IN NNS . PRP MD VB VBN JJ TO VB VBN DT $ CD CD RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
EX VBZ DT JJ NN TO VB DT , '' DT NN VBD , IN RB VBG NNP NNP IN PRP VBD NNP NN . CC RB , NNP NNP VBD IN PDT PRP$ JJ NN IN NN VBD RB JJ PRP IN DT NN . PRP VBD VBN . NNP NNS RB NN DT NN IN PRP MD RB VB TO NN IN PRP VBD IN DT NN NN . DT NNS VBP JJ : DT JJ NN MD RB VB RB RB , NN MD VB VBN . NNS VBP RBR JJ : DT NN IN DT NN NNS , NN , NNS VBP PRP . RB JJ NNS NN . NNS WP VBD JJ NNS , JJ NNS VBN IN DT NN IN PRP VBD NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN VBD : NNS VBD RB JJ IN DT NN . PRP VBP RB JJ PRP VBD RB . '' POS NNP VBZ RB . CC NNS VBP VBG PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' VBG DT NN TO VB VBG PRP , CC PRP VBP DT JJ NNS . WRB NNP PRP . '' 
RBR JJ , RB , DT NNS IN DT NN WP VBD VBN NNS VBG JJ NN ( JJ NNS IN DT NNS VBG DT NN NNS ) CC WP VBD NN VBD PRP$ NN IN VBG NN NN IN CD NN . IN PRP VBD JJ TO VB WDT NNS MD VB DT NNS PRP MD VB WDT NNS VBP RBS JJ TO VB IN NN . CC IN IN RB EX VBZ DT NN IN DT NNP NN IN NN NN . CC , IN PRP VBD DT NN TO VB NNS IN NN , PRP MD VB JJ TO VB WRB DT NNS VBP VBG TO VB JJ IN PRP VBP DT NN TO VB NN . NNS VBP VBG DT NN TO VB RB DT . VB POS VB DT VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN . RB DT JJ NN IN NNS VBZ RB IN NN VBZ JJ CC JJ , CC IN PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN PRP VBP RB RB VB . VBG PRP IN CD NNS IN DT NN NN NN VBZ JJ . VBG PRP RBR MD RB VB JJR . IN JJ NNS , DT NNS CC JJ NNS IN VBG PRP IN NN MD VB VBN . NNP , IN DT JJ NN , VBZ RB TO VB VBN TO VB NN NN IN DT NNS . 
NNS VBD . CC VBP VBN TO DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS WDT VBP NN IN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP . DT IN DT NNS VBP IN NNS IN NNS CC NNS WDT VBP VBN TO VB NN NN . PRP VBZ RB RB JJ IN JJ NNS NN IN NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP . PRP VBD JJ NNS IN NNS WP VBD VBN TO VB , VBG CD VBG JJR IN CD NNS , VBD TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN NN . DT JJ NNP NNP VBZ RB IN DT JJ '' JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN PRP VBZ NN VBZ IN JJ NNS : EX VBZ RB RB JJ NN IN PRP VBZ NN IN NNS . DT NN MD VB NN IN NNS VBZ RB IN CC IN PRP VBP NN IN NN , NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP VBN DT NN IN DT NNS , '' PRP VBD . 
RB , DT NNP NNP NN IN IN CD NNS IN JJ NN NN WP VBD VBN IN CD TO CD NN IN RB CD NN VBD NN . CC RB CD NN VBD RB RB . DT JJ NNS IN DT NN NN NN VBP NN IN DT NN , NNS VBP . DT NNS VBP NNS CC NNS TO VB JJR NNS , VB JJR NNS CC VB JJR NNS . PRP VBP NNS IN CD NN TO DT JJ : VBG JJ NN . DT RB RB , WRB DT NN VBZ DT NN , NN IN DT NN IN NNS VBZ NN IN VBG DT NNS . CD NN NNS NN CC NN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBZ PRP RB TO NN CC RB TO VB . '' PRP VBD IN NNS CC NNS MD VB IN JJR NNS WDT VBP NN RB : VBG JJ NNS CC NN IN DT NN POS JJ NN . PRP MD VB NN IN NNS CC NNS . CC , PRP VBD , NNP MD VB VBG IN NNS , VBN IN NNS IN NNS VBN CC VBN CC IN NN IN DT NN . 
CC DT JJ NN IN NNP , VBN IN DT NNP NNP CC NN : NNP NNP , NNP . CC NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD DT JJ NN . NNS POS NN NNS VBD VBN RB TO PDT DT NN IN DT JJ NNS TO VB IN PRP IN NN NN VBD RB JJ , NNP NNP VBD . NNP VBZ RB JJ . PRP VBZ JJ , VBG IN $ CD DT NN . PRP VBZ RB DT NN : DT NN NNS VBP JJ , JJ CC JJ TO VB IN DT NN VBZ VBN , IN NNS MD VB PRP DT NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NNS . CC DT NNS VBP RB VBG NN TO NNP . RB , NNP NNP VBZ , CD NNS RB , JJS IN PRP$ NNS VBP RB VBG RB . '' IN NNP , PRP VBD , JJS MD VB JJ . IN IN DT NN IN NN NN , NNP NNP CC NNS VBP IN NNP VBZ DT NN IN DT JJ . 
DT NN IN NNS VBG NNP NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP NNP CC DT NN VBD IN DT NNP NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP ( NN ) , WDT VBD DT NN RP IN PRP$ NN NN IN WP PRP VBD DT NN IN JJ NN . DT NN , IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP , RB VBN NNS IN DT NN NN IN NNP CC VBN CD NNS IN DT NNS POS NN IN JJ NNS MD VB : RB RB , PRP VBD : VBD NNS IN NN IN NNP POS NN . IN PRP , PRP VBD , NNS IN DT NN VBD JJ NNS WP VBD JJ TO VB JJ NN NNS CC VBD JJ JJ NNS IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS , IN JJ NNS WP RB VBP NNP CD NNS . VBG TO DT NN CC NN , DT NN IN NNP NNP , NNP NNP , VBD DT NN VBD RB RB RB VBN DT NN IN DT NN , CC VBD , PRP VBZ RB VBN IN EX VBP JJ JJ CC JJ NNS TO VB NNS . '' 
JJ NNS VBP IN IN NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS IN NN NN NN MD VB DT JJ NN . CC VBP RB VB PRP MD VB RP DT NN IN DT NN NN RB IN IN DT CD NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNS CC NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP . NNP NNP CC NNS VBP RP IN DT VBN NN IN NN NN CC JJ NNS IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBD JJ . JJ NNS RB VBP IN VBG NNS IN CD TO CD NNS , TO VB JJ NNS IN NN , VBZ RB JJ IN JJS NNS . CC DT NN VBZ , NN RB VBZ RB RB IN NN TO VB JJ NNS CC JJ NN . RB , DT NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP NN VBZ VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NNS IN NN NN NN . PRP VBZ JJ IN IN DT NNS RB , JJ NNS MD VB VBG NNS IN NN CC NN WDT VBP VBN TO DT NN POS NN CC JJ NNS . DT NNS MD VB IN JJR NNS , CC DT MD VB NNS RB IN NN IN JJ NNS . 
DT NNS IN DT NN IN NNP NNS VBD RB JJ VBG . NNP NNP CC PRP$ NN NNS , NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP NNP , RB VBD IN NNP NNS IN DT NNP NNPS , IN NN TO VBG NN , VBD JJR IN PRP$ NNS IN NNP . NNP NNP VBD DT JJR NN TO VB NN NN , NN NN NNS , NN TO JJR JJ NN CC JJ NNS IN NN NNS IN NNS . RB , WRB NNS VBP IN PRP VBZ DT NN IN PRP VBP JJR , CC DT NNP NNS VBP RB VBG NN , RB CD NNS VBP VBG IN RB , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNP VBD IN JJ NN IN NNS IN DT NN NNS CC PRP$ NNS VBD DT NN IN JJR NN NNS RBS RB VBP IN DT JJR JJ NN VBN IN DT NNP WP VBD VBG IN DT NNP NNPS . '' NNP , PRP VBP NN , PRP VBP PRP$ NNS CC NNS IN , PRP VBP IN DT NNS IN PRP$ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . '' DT NNP , PRP VBP TO NN , VB NN CC VB NN NNS . '' 
CD NN , NNP NNP VBD , WP VBD VBN CD NNS IN IN JJ NN , VBD TO VB PRP$ JJ NN TO NNS IN PRP$ NN . CD VBD IN TO PRP TO VB WP PRP VBD IN DT NN VBD DT JJ JJ NN IN WP PRP VB , '' '' NNP NNP VBD . NN , IN RB VBG WP DT MD VB TO PRP$ VBG NNS , WP PRP MD VB IN DT VBG NN , WRB MD PRP VB IN DT NNS PRP VBD VBG CC DT NN WP VBD VBG TO VB VBN IN DT NN , PRP MD RB VB DT NN NN . DT NN VBD PRP IN NNS : CD VBP TO VB DT , PRP VBP TO VB JJ , PRP VBP JJ , CC PRP MD RB VB DT . '' POS JJ NNS VBP JJ IN NN IN NNS IN NNS TO VB JJ NN CC TO VB PRP IN DT NN IN VBG NN IN NN NN NN . 
NNP VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ TO RB NN WP VBZ RB JJ : MD PRP VB TO PRP$ JJ NN CC MD PRP VB JJR IN PRP VBD TO DT JJ JJ NN . PRP MD VB DT JJ NN WRB PRP VBP JJ CC PRP MD RB RB JJ VBG NNS WP VBP NNS TO PRP . CC WP IN VBG TO DT JJ JJ NN VBZ DT NN IN NN CC NN . NNPS VBP JJ NNS , VBN RB IN JJ NNS IN DT NN CC DT NN . CC JJ NNS , VBG IN NNS , VBP PRP VBP RB RB JJ PRP IN WRB TO VB . CC RB VBZ RB , RB JJ NN , '' VBZ NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , WP NNS JJ NNS . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN PDT DT NNS TO VB NN NN IN NN NN NN NN . '' CC EX VBP DT JJ NNS , PRP CC NNS VBP , CC DT NNS IN DT NNS RB RB VBP RB VBN DT NN . 
RB DT NNS VBP , EX VBZ JJ NN IN NN NN , IN DT NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN DT JJ NNS , NNS VBP , VBG NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS . IN DT RB VB JJ NNS , PRP VBP RB RBR . IN DT NN , DT DT VBN NNS MD VB RP VBG DT NN IN NN NNS , NNS VBP . CC NNS VBP JJ NNP POS NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN MD VB DT NN IN NN NNS TO VB DT NN , DT IN WDT VBP VBN IN DT NN CC NN IN DT NN NN . '' NNP , NNS VBP , VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN . DT NN VBZ RP DT NN NN , JJ NN , WDT VBZ RB JJ IN JJ JJ NN . DT JJ JJ NN , WDT VBD CD NNS RB , VBD IN DT JJ NN . CC NN IN DT MD VB TO VB VBD NN PRP VBD IN PRP$ JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP NNP . NN VBD RB NN PRP VBN MD VB RB . '' 
NNP NNP VBD IN IN DT NN IN DT NN VBD JJ , PRP VBD NNS IN DT NNS : JJR NNS , DT VBN IN DT NN WP VBD IN DT NN NN RB VB IN NN VBN RB : MD VB IN VBG PRP$ NNS VBP . RB , PRP VBD , PRP VBZ RB VBN RP IN DT NN . PRP VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN , VBG IN DT NNS CC RB RB VBG DT JJ NN NN . PRP VBD PRP MD RB VB VBG DT NNP NNPS IN NNP . '' NN , '' PRP VBD , '' TO VB IN NNP RB TO DT NNP . '' 
DT NN IN DT NN VBD CD . IN CD NNS , NNP NNP VBD , PRP VBD IN NNP POS NNP NNP . EX , IN NNP , DT NNP NN VBD IN PRP VBD VBG DT NN , VBD NN , CC RB VBD PRP$ NN . CC VBD RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC PRP VBD CC PRP VBP VBG RB , RB RB . '' RB , PRP VBD , PRP$ JJ NN IN DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN . PRP VBZ RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN VBD JJ TO PRP , CC PRP VBP RB JJ IN DT . '' DT NNP NNP 
VBG IN DT NN RB DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , EX VBZ DT NN IN JJ NN TO VB VBN DT MD VB VBN IN JJ NN NN NNS . '' NNP NNP VBD PRP$ NN MD VB NNS IN JJ JJ NN NNS IN VBG IN NN NNS IN RB . CC RB , PRP VBD , PRP VBZ TO VB WP VBZ VBN VBN IN NN NN TO JJ NN NN NN . DT NN IN VBG NNP NNP VBZ VBN VBZ VBN JJ NN . DT NN VBZ VBG NNS IN DT NN NN , RB JJ NNS , CC VBG PRP IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ VBD PRP$ JJ VBN . RB IN VBG DT NN IN DT NN POS NN , IN VBD VBN IN DT NN IN DT NNS TO VB JJ JJ NN , NNS MD VB NN NNS IN DT NN WDT MD RB VB IN NNS WDT VBP DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN . 
JJ NN VBZ IN PRP VBP RB VBN IN DT NN NN IN RB CD NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NN NN . IN PRP VBP RB VBN , CC RB IN DT NN PRP VBP VBN TO DT NN RB . '' DT NNS VBD NNP IN NNP NNS , WP VBD PRP PRP MD VB TO VB IN DT NN VBZ VBN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN NN , IN DT NNS MD VB IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD . CC DT NNP NN , WRB VBN IN DT NN , VBD DT NN MD VB TO VB DT NN RB . CC VBP VBG RB TO VB DT NN , '' VBD DT NN , NNP NNP . CC JJ NN VBZ TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NN VBG DT JJ NN , IN NN VBZ DT NN . PRP VBP VBN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NNS NN TO VB DT NN . '' 
RB RB IN PRP VBP JJ , PRP VBP VBG NNP NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD TO NNS IN DT IN NNP NNP , CD . IN NNP NNP , WP VBZ IN JJ NN , NNP NNP POS NN RB VBZ DT JJ NN TO DT NN NN . CD NN JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD RB IN CD RB VBG NN CC VBD PRP$ NN , NNP NNP , TO VB DT NN . DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS , PRP VBD RB CD NN CC VBD NNP NNP POS NN RB . JJR IN CD NNS RB NNP NNP VBD VBN IN DT NN NN , VBG IN DT JJ VBZ IN DT NN CC VBG DT JJ NN PRP MD VB VBN IN DT NN NN , VBG NN NNS , DT NN CC DT NN . DT NN , DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN NN NN , VBD VBN RB , CC NNP NNP VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN . RB IN VBG JJ NN NNS , NNP MD VB RB IN DT NN NN . CC VBZ DT JJS NN IN RB VBD TO PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
DT NN VBZ VBN IN NN NNS IN NNS WP VBP NN IN VBN NN NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP . '' NN IN NNS VBN IN IN DT NN IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD NN IN PRP MD VB RB JJ CC PRP MD VB JJ NN : WP VBZ WP PRP VBP VBG RP DT JJ . RB DT NN VBZ TO VB DT NN IN NN VBG IN DT NN CC NN . DT NN CC NNS VBG DT NN CC NN VBZ RB VB DT NN . RB DT NN MD VB PRP VBZ VBG VBN JJ NN . '' NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP , NNP , WP VBZ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN IN NNS VBP NN NNS VBG NN TO JJ , JJ , NN , '' DT NN VBZ IN DT NN IN DT NNP NNS IN NN TO JJ . MD RB , NN MD VB NN IN DT NNP , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
VBG RP NN NNS NNPS $ CD CD DT NN , CC CD NN IN DT JJ NN NN NN , VBG TO DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP , CC RB JJR IN NN NNS , NNS POS NN CC VBN NNS VBP VBN IN NN . DT NNS VBP VBG , NNS VBP , IN NNS VBP RB RBR JJ NNS IN NN . NNP NNS VBP DT VBG NN IN NNS TO NNS CC NNS CC DT JJ JJ NN IN NNS TO NNS IN DT : RB IN NN , NN NN , NNS , NNS CC NNS IN JJ NNS . JJR IN CD NN IN NNS VBP RB NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NNS , NNS VBP . DT JJ VBP VBD PRP IN DT JJ CD NNS . CC IN PDT DT NNS , IN PDT DT NNS VBN IN NNS POS NNS CC VBG NNS , IN PDT DT NN NN CC NN CC JJ NNS , NN IN NN VBZ VBG JJ NNS TO VB WP , IN NN , VBZ VBG DT JJ . 
WP DT JJ NN IN DT CD NN VBD RB VB , RB , VBD WRB DT NN VBD RB RB , CC WRB PRP VBD IN JJ NN TO VB JJ . IN DT NNS , PRP MD VB TO VB DT RBR JJ NN . CC JJ CD NNS IN PRP$ NN VBG DT , CC PRP VBD PRP NN IN NN , '' VBZ NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP . WP VBZ WRB PRP VBD DT NN VBD RB RB . PRP VBD JJ TO VB DT NN NN RB . '' NNP CC RB , DT NN IN PRP VBD VBN JJ VBD RB RB TO VB IN PRP MD VB VBN . IN NN , DT NN VBN IN WP VBZ JJ VBZ VBN RB , IN DT NN IN RB RBR JJ NNS IN NN . DT NN VBD IN DT NNS , WP RB VBD RP DT JJ NN TO VB PRP$ NNS CC PRP$ NNS . RB NNS VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBD JJ TO VB DT NN CC NN IN DT NNS CC NNS VBG RP DT NNS , CC IN JJ NNS , DT NNS WDT VBP NNS CC VB PRP$ NNS . IN DT JJ NN PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NNS WDT VBP DT NNS IN VBG . RB IN DT JJ NN VBZ VBN VBG VBD PRP JJ TO VB NN NNS IN DT JJ NNS IN NNP VBG DT JJ NN POS JJ NN , VBG PRP$ JJ . 
JJ NNS VBP IN NN NNS RB MD VB VBN , CC IN JJ , IN RB JJS , IN DT NNS VBG IN NN NN NNS VBP RB VB TO VB RB . CC NNS IN CD , WRB PRP RB VB PRP PRP RB VBP PRP IN IN PRP VBP RB VBG , RB VBG JJR IN DT NN CC CD IN NN DT NN , VBG JJ NN CC VBG PRP$ NN NN , PRP VBP VBG JJR IN PRP$ NN IN PRP MD RB VB , '' NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP . NNS VBP RB VB TO VB PRP IN IN DT NNP NN DT CD NNS . '' NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBZ IN NNS CC NNS VBP DT NN IN JJ NN , IN JJS NNS VBG JJ NNS IN RB NN , NN NN CC NNS IN NN TO NN . RB EX VBZ NN IN NN MD VB CC JJS IN DT NN DT NN VBZ RB IN PRP IN , CC IN , DT NN . CC IN PRP VBP DT NN , NNS VBP PRP MD VB NNS CC PRP MD VB NNS . NNP NNP VBZ PRP VBZ NN IN NN '' CC VBZ PRP$ NN VBZ WP PRP VBZ JJ CD NN , VBG NNS RB RB IN NNS VBP RB VB . '' 
RB IN NNP NNP , PRP VBD , PRP VBD JJ TO VB DT NN WP MD VB PRP . PRP VBD NNS RB VBD NNP NNP POS NN NNS , VBD PRP MD RB VB CC VB JJ NN . NNP NNP VBD TO VB JJ NNS , CC VBD PRP VBD NNS DT JJS CC RBS JJ NN . RB , NNP NNP VBD , PRP VBD VBN IN PRP$ NN POS NNS IN DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , WP VBD PRP$ NN IN JJ NNP NN VBN IN PRP$ NNS . PRP RB VBD NNP NNP , WP VBD PRP VBD DT NN IN NN NNS CC PRP$ NNS . NNP NNP , WP RB VBD IN DT NN , VBD PRP VBD VBN JJR IN CD NNS IN NNS JJ TO NNP NNP POS . PRP VBD PRP VBD VBN PRP$ IN JJ JJ NNS . WRB PRP VBD TO VB DT NNS , PRP VBD . NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD RB VBG NNS , CC VBD RB IN JJ NN . 
NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP NN , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , NNP . PRP VBP RB VB VBG IN NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN PRP VBP IN PRP$ NNS . PRP VBZ CD IN DT DT NNS WRB PRP VBZ IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBZ JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ RB VB . PRP VBP VB TO VB NN , VBG IN NN CD . CC IN PRP VBP DT NN WP VBZ IN RB JJ NN IN NN NN , VBN IN PRP$ NN NN CC NN NN , RB PRP VBP PRP VBZ JJ TO VB IN NN CD . DT JJS NN VBZ VBG NNS IN PRP$ CD POS CC JJ CD POS TO VB VBN , IN DT VBZ WRB EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN , CC PRP VBP TO VB JJR NNS IN NN . NNP NN VBZ JJ . PRP VBZ RB DT NN , JJ NN , CC JJS NNS WP VBP PRP VBZ IN PRP CC RB IN PRP . 
PRP VBD IN IN DT NN NNS VBD VBG PRP PRP VBD RB JJ IN JJ , IN IN PRP , PRP VBP RB RB RB JJ IN JJ . DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN , PRP VBD NN . PRP VBD IN NN CC MD RB VB RP . PRP VBD RB VBG TO RB VB JJ TO VB DT NNS PRP VBD RB VBN . PRP VBP JJ IN PRP . TO PRP , PRP$ JJ NN VBD DT NN IN NN . PRP RB VBP VB DT JJ NN NN . PRP VBP DT JJ NNS WP VBP RB CC RB CC IN VBG NNS IN CD NNS , CC PRP VBD RB VB DT NN . PRP VBD DT CD NN NN , WDT PRP VBD VBD JJ TO DT NN . IN CD NNS IN DT NN , PRP VBD RP NN IN DT NN POS NN . PRP VBD DT MD VB DT JJ NN . PRP VBD EX WRB PRP VBD IN NN , CC RB PRP VBD JJ IN PRP MD RB VB RB . PRP VBD VBG PRP TO VB , NN . 
NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN NNS CC NN CC JJ NNS IN NNP CC JJ JJ NN IN DT NNP NN , VBD DT NNS IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP NNS VBD JJ . CC NN IN DT NN IN NN CC DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNS VBZ JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD WRB IN DT NN MD PRP RB VB TO VB RP IN RB VBG NN IN DT NNS IN JJ NN MD VB JJ . '' IN DT JJ NN , NNS VBP DT JJ NN VBZ VBN VBN . NN VBZ RB IN DT NN IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NN . CD NN IN DT , WRB MD PRP VB DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS IN NN NNS . DT NNS VBP DT NN PRP VBP RB VB TO VB RP IN , DT NN WP . '' NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN CC JJ NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD . 
DT NN VBZ RB : CC RB RB : CD IN NN . VBG TO DT NNS IN DT NN NN NN , PRP VBZ CD JJ NNS IN VBG . JJS RB , PRP VBZ NN : DT NN IN DT NN : CC NNS VBP IN VBG DT NN . IN DT NNS , RB , VBG IN WRB DT NN VBZ IN PRP$ NN , PRP MD VB DT RB VBN NN IN VBG TO DT JJ NN . IN JJ DT NN , IN DT WP VBP IN NN : CC RB RB NN : VBZ IN DT NN IN NN , PRP MD RB VB IN DT NN . VBG TO DT NNP NNP IN NNPS CC NNPS , RB , NN VBZ RB IN NN CC IN NN . DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBZ TO VB IN DT NN IN NN VBZ DT NN WRB DT NN POS NN VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN . DT RB NN IN DT VBN NNS IN RB VBP TO DT JJ NN VBP RB RB RB VBN TO VB JJ NNS : VBD NNS : IN VBD CC RB VBD NNS WDT VBD RB VB IN NNS . JJ NNS VBN IN DT NNP NN NN IN DT , VBG , NN VBZ DT NN IN NN IN NN IN NN . '' 
NNS VBP RB VB PRP MD VB DT NN IN CD NNS IN PRP VBP NNS , CC IN CD CC CD NNS RB , '' PRP VBD . CC VBZ IN IN DT NN IN PRP VBD JJ , PRP VBD VBG PRP$ NNS IN DT NN . '' RB IN NNS IN NN NNS , NNS WP VBP NNS MD VB VBN , PRP VBD , TO VB PRP JJ CC JJ TO VB IN NNS . DT NNS RB VBP IN VBG JJ JJ NN RB VBZ NNS . JJ NN NN CC VBG PRP$ NN IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN VBZ DT JJ NN , CC RB RB TO VB NN . CC VBZ RB RB VBN , '' VBD NNP NNP IN NNP . '' JJ NNS MD VB VBN CD CC CD NNS IN DT NN , CC DT JJS NNS RB RBR . DT NN MD VB IN DT NN IN NNS CC RB RBR . '' RB NNS IN RB JJ NN MD VB RBR JJ NNS IN NNS RBR JJ TO VB IN PRP , NNP NNP VBD . CC DT IN DT NN PRP RP '' NN IN JJ NN NNS MD VB NN TO VB TO VB IN DT NN CC CD , WRB PRP VBP TO VB RB , JJ PRP VBP RB JJ . 
NNP NNP MD VB DT NN WRB PRP$ NN VBD JJ . NNS RB , VBG IN DT NN NN JJ , PRP MD VB PRP$ NN IN DT NN IN NN IN MD . VB VBD PDT DT NNS CC WP VBD IN PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . RB , IN CD , PRP VBZ PRP$ NN NN . CC VB DT NN IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD '' PRP VBP WP PRP VBP VBG TO VB CC WP PRP VBP VBG TO VB PRP . PRP VBD RP IN DT RB JJ NN . PRP VBZ DT NN TO VB . '' JJ NNS VBP RB JJ . VBG NNS , VBG NN NNS , VBG DT NN IN DT NN NN NN : DT VBP VBN TO VB DT JJ NN IN VBG JJ . CC VBZ JJ NN NN JJ . IN DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJR JJ NNS , NNS VBP RB VBG TO VB DT NN . IN DT NN , PRP VBZ RB VBN TO VB RB JJ IN JJR NNS VBP RB VB RB RB IN JJR NNS . NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , VBZ IN WRB JJ CC JJ NNS , VBG IN NN IN CD TO CD , VBP VBN TO VB TO DT NN IN NNS CC NNS CC RB VB DT NN , JJ NNS MD VB CC VB JJR NNS RBR . 
JJ NNS IN NN NN , VBN IN IN NN IN JJ NNS TO VB NN NNS WDT MD VB VBN IN DT NN WDT VBZ NNP CC IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN VBG NN CC NN IN DT JJ IN PRP VBP VBN , VBP VBN RP JJ NNS TO VBG VBG NNS , NNS VBP . IN NN IN DT NNP , DT NNP NNP VBZ VBN NNS , IN WDT PRP VBZ VBG NN NNS , TO VB VBG NNS RB IN JJ NNS TO VB JJ NNS IN JJ NNS IN NNS . JJS IN DT NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN , VBN IN VBG NNS , DT VBZ VBN IN DT NN CC VBN IN NN IN DT NN IN NNS . DT NNS VBP RB VBN DT JJ NN NN WDT MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS CC DT NN NN TO VB JJ NN NNS . DT NN VBZ RB VBG DT JJ NN WDT MD VB VBN IN DT JJ , JJ NN CC DT JJ NN . 
IN DT NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNS WDT VBP JJ CC JJ NNS , DT NNP IN NNPS VBD DT NN DT NN WDT MD VB DT JJ NN CC JJ NN WP VBZ DT NN TO VB NNS CC JJ JJ NNS . RB , IN PRP$ NN TO VB NN CC VB PRP$ NNS IN DT JJ NN , DT NNS MD VB DT NN IN NN WDT VBZ VBG JJ NNS . IN DT NN IN DT NN VBZ JJ , JJS NNS MD VB DT RB JJ NN IN VBG VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN . NNP VBZ TO VB VBN VBN IN DT JJ NN IN NN VBZ VBG RB RB RB JJ . DT NN VBD IN NNP NNP VBG IN DT NN WDT VBZ , IN NN , RB JJ : IN TO VB JJ NN IN NN IN NN NNS VBN IN RB JJ NN NN , VBN NNS , WDT VBP VBN IN NN IN NN NNS . DT NN VBZ JJ CC JJ NNS IN JJ NNS VBP DT NNS DT JJ NN IN JJ NN , RB JJ IN VBG IN DT NN CC RB DT JJ NN . NNS , VBG DT NN , VB DT NNS TO VB JJ NNS IN NNS WDT VBP DT NN IN VBG JJ IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN . PRP VBP JJ NNS IN NN IN NNS WDT MD VB DT NN . 
NNS IN NN VBP RB JJ . IN JJ NNS CC PRP$ NNS VBP IN JJ NNS IN NN CD IN JJ CC JJ , EX VBP RB VBN JJ NNS . PRP$ JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS MD VB TO VB VBN RB VBN IN DT NN VBD DT NN IN DT NNP , VBG IN NNS WP VBP VBN NN IN NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT WP VBP RB . CC DT NN IN NN NN NN VBZ RB RB RB VBN . IN JJS IN DT JJ NN , NNS VBD IN NN NN VBD DT JJ NN IN RB VB TO DT NN IN DT NN RB IN PRP$ NN . JJ NN , PRP VBD , VBD IN DT NN MD VB VBN CC VBN IN PRP MD VB . IN PRP VBD JJ NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP VBD IN DT CD POS TO VB NNS TO VB JJ NNS CC IN DT CD POS TO VB NNS . 
IN NN IN NNS MD VB , DT NN MD VB DT NNS NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP . DT NN NN VBZ VBN IN NN NN IN NN CC NNS . '' JJ NNS VBD RB RB VBP DT VBN JJ , VBD NNP NNP IN NNP POS NNP , DT JJ IN NN IN NN IN NN , '' PRP VBZ RB RB JJ TO VB WRB JJ DT NN VBZ IN DT JJR JJ NN CC JJ NN . '' 
IN CD TO CD , IN JJ NNS VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , NNS RB VBD DT NN NN WDT RB VBD IN VBG DT JJ NNS IN NNS MD VB JJ NN , DT JJ NN NN WDT MD VB JJ NN . DT NN NNS , IN CD NNS , VBD RP IN DT NN IN NNP , WRB DT NN NN NN , NNP NNP NNP , VBD VBN . CD NNS RB , WRB NNP NNP VBD JJ TO VB , PRP VBD DT NN TO NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN WP VBZ IN DT NNP IN NNP . IN NNP NNP VBD RB VBN DT NN , PRP MD VB VBN VBN . NNP NNP VBD NN NNS WDT RB VBP JJ NN TO VB DT NN RB TO NNP . TO VB DT CD NN NNS , DT VBG IN CD NNS IN NN , PRP CC PRP$ JJ NN VBD TO NNP CC VBD NNS . '' NN VBD PRP IN PRP VBD DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD DT NN CC NN IN VBG PRP DT NN . 
POS NN RB VBD DT NNS IN NNS WP VBP RB VB NN TO NN NN , '' PRP VBD . CC JJ NN VBZ RB NN . IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBZ DT JJ NN NN , CC NNS VBP VBN IN PRP . '' POS JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' WP VBZ IN DT NN IN DT NN WP VBZ RB VBN VBN CC WP VBZ RB VB NN TO NN . '' 
RB NNP . DT NNS VBD PRP IN NNP NNP NNP JJ . VBG NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN , CC RB NN VBD PRP$ NN . NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP CC NN IN PRP$ NNP IN NNP CC DT NNP NNP , VBD DT NNS VBP NNS IN NNS IN DT NN . EX VBZ NN IN DT JJ NN RB IN DT JJ NN NN , '' PRP VBD . IN PRP VBP IN NNS PRP MD RB VB RP VBG IN PRP$ NNS . '' NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD TO VBG NNS , CC RB JJ NNS CC JJ NNS . PRP VBD PRP VBD , RB , VBP DT JJ NN , VBG VBG JJ NN IN NN NNS . DT NN IN JJ NNS VBP RB JJ , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT VBG NN IN NNP NNP CC NN : NNP NNP , VBZ IN IN NNS , '' JJ NN VBZ PRP DT NN . '' NNPS , IN WP MD VB DT NN , VBP RB JJ JJR JJ . 
NNP NNP VBZ IN RB NN IN DT NN NN VBZ VBN IN JJ JJ NNS . DT NN IN PRP$ NNS VB , PRP VBZ , VBZ DT NNS WDT VBP VBN . NNP VBZ IN NN RB IN PRP VBZ RB JJ , PRP VBD IN , VBG IN NNS VBP IN NNS CC VBP RB VB TO VB NNS IN JJ NN . CC VBZ RB RBR JJ TO VB IN PRP VBP VBG IN PRP RB VBP TO VB JJ IN NNP , '' WDT MD VB NNS IN NNS , NNP NNP VBD . WP VBZ WP VBZ VBG IN . '' NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD DT NN IN NNS . IN PRP VBP DT NN WP VBZ NN , EX VBZ DT NN IN NN TO VB DT CC VB DT , '' PRP VBD . CC PRP VBZ PRP RB TO VB PRP$ NN . CC VBP DT NN , '' PRP VBD , NNP RB WRB PRP VBP VBN DT NN , PRP MD RB RB VBP PRP MD RB VB PRP NNP IN DT NN IN NN . '' 
NNP NNS VBD DT NN WDT MD RB VB DT JJ RBS JJ NN IN NN : CC IN DT NN VBD JJ , JJ CC RB , RB JJ : PRP MD VB DT NN NN IN NNS VBG NN NN . DT NN VBZ DT NN . DT JJ NN , IN IN PRP$ NN , DT NN , VBZ DT JJ TO RB VB RP JJ NN , WDT VBD CD NNS JJ NN . CC JJ NNS , RB DT NN NN MD VB VBN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NN IN NNP . EX VBZ RB CD NN , NNP NNP VBD : NNS VBP RB VB PRP IN DT NNS . '' IN DT NN , DT JJ , JJ , JJ NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN . PRP VBZ VBN TO DT NN NN WDT VBZ DT NN TO VB DT NN CC DT JJ NN ( IN CD NNS ) IN DT NN IN NNS CC NNS . NNS VBP VBN VBG DT NN NN . 
JJ JJ NN MD VB DT NN IN DT NN NN MD VB DT JJ JJ NN , IN NNS MD RB VB TO VB NN NNS . CC DT NN VBZ VBN JJ NNS IN PRP MD VB VBG DT JJ NN TO VB PRP$ NN NNS . IN NNP , DT NNP NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD VBN RB VBG IN JJ NN IN DT NN , VBG JJ NNS $ CD TO $ CD IN NNS CC VBG PRP TO VB TO VB JJ NN NNS . PRP$ NNS , VBN IN JJ NN , VBN NNS IN IN NN VBD VBG RB IN JJ NN . DT JJ NN IN DT NN , VBN IN NNP : DT NNP IN NNP NNP , VBZ DT NNS IN DT NNS . NNP NNP NNP VBD CD JJ NNS TO VB TO VB JJ NN . DT JJ VBD RB IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ VBN VBN TO VB NNS CC NN , VBG DT JJ JJ NN , NNP . PRP VBZ VBG DT JJ NN IN IN DT JJ NN CC NN IN PRP$ NN DT NN NN , WDT VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NN . DT VBG NN VBZ DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NN NN : RB DT NN IN DT NN . 
JJ NNS NNS VBP RB JJ IN PRP VBP RB TO VB DT NN POS NN , IN NNP NNP VBD RB . NNP NNP , DT JJ NN WP VBZ IN NNP , VBD VBG RB NN , IN PRP VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN NN . WRB PRP VBD , DT NN POS NN VBD DT NN NN . CC VBD IN DT IN DT NNS CC VBD , '' VBP JJ NNS . '' PRP VBD , '' MD VB IN WRB PRP VBP IN DT NN . '' PRP VBD , '' VBP RB VBG TO VB DT NN . '' '' DT NN , DT NN POS NN VBD , VBD JJ VBG NNS . CD VBD , NNP , PRP VBP DT NN , '' '' NNP NNP VBD , CC PRP VBD DT NN . CC VB DT NNS VBP RB , RB JJ , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC NN IN DT NN NN VBZ JJ IN NN IN DT NN RB . PRP VBP RB VB TO VB IN PRP VBP TO VB VBN CC VBN CC IN PRP VBP JJ . CC WP VBZ JJ VBZ JJ , CC WP VBZ JJ VBZ JJ . PRP VBP CD CC PRP VBP JJ RB TO VB DT NN WRB PRP VBD TO DT NN CC PRP VBD DT NN . '' 
IN DT NN , DT NN , DT NNP POS NNP NNP , VBD IN NN VBD RB VB DT NNS POS NN IN NN NN . CC PRP VBD VB JJR JJ NNS , RB VBG IN DT NN VB VBN , CC JJR NN NNS . DT NN VBD RB , IN DT NN IN NNP CD , WRB DT NNS VBD IN NN VBD DT NN IN NNS CC IN NN NNS IN DT NN . DT NN RB VBD IN NN VBN RB VBD DT NN IN NN IN NNS IN NN CD , PRP VBD DT NN IN NN NNS , CC PRP VBD DT NN IN NN NN . CC DT NN IN NN POS NNS IN NN NN NN VBD JJ IN RB , WRB DT NNS VBD VBN VBN IN CD NNS . DT NNS IN NNS IN NNS VBP IN DT IN DT NN IN DT NN VBG NNS WP VBD RB VBN NNS CC WP VBD NN CC NN . IN DT NN DT NN NN VBD TO RBR JJ NN CC JJR NN NN . 
IN VBG NNS : JJ IN PRP VBP NNS CC JJ JJ NNS : TO VB JJ NN NNS , NNS IN DT NN IN NN , VBG CC NNS VBP RB VBG IN PRP MD VB NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ JJ IN NN CC NN NNS . NNP NNP VBD VBG IN NNP NNP , DT NN NN , IN CD . IN RB PRP VBZ VBN JJ NNS IN PRP$ , VBG PRP$ JJ WRB RB CC WRB RB TO VB , CC IN WP NN NN . PRP VBZ RB VBN JJ IN NN CC JJ NNS 7 TO NN PRP$ NNS CC VBD PRP$ NN . NNP NNP , IN NN , VBD IN NNP NNP POS NN IN VBG JJ DT NN RB VBD PRP DT JJR NN , IN PRP$ NNS RB RB VBN . JJR IN NN , RB , NNP NNP VBD NNP NNP TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN . CC PRP VBD PRP NNS . DT NN PRP VBD DT NNP NNP , IN DT RB RB NN , IN CD NNS RBR IN DT IN PRP$ JJ JJ NNS . 
CC PRP RB VBD IN CD IN DT CD NNS VBD VBN NNS IN VBD JJ CC VBD RP RB TO VB NN ( VBN IN NNS ) . JJ NNS VBN JJ NNS CC , IN DT NNS , JJ NNS , TO VB IN DT NN VBD JJ . DT NNS VBD TO VB JJ NNS IN NN IN PRP VBD PRP VBD RB VB NN . NNP NNP RB VBD PRP NNS , VBG IN RB TO DT NN IN VBG VBG JJ NNP . NN PRP VBD VBG DT JJ NN , '' PRP RB VBD , '' VBP DT NN CC VB IN NN VBD VBG IN VBN TO VB DT JJ NN . '' PRP$ JJ NNP . JJ VBD NN . NNP IN NNP NNP POS JJ NN VBD VBN , RB JJ TO DT JJ VBG NN . PRP JJ JJ NN , DT JJ NN , TO VB DT JJ NN . CC DT NN VBD PRP : DT NN NN VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NN , NN RBR CC RBR . EX VBD DT NN . 
IN DT JJ NN NN VBD RB IN DT NNP NNP NNP , DT NNS VBD CC VBD , VBG RP IN JJ NNS CC VBG WRB JJ PRP VBD TO VB VBN IN NNS IN JJ NN IN PRP$ NN IN JJ CC VBG NNS . WP VBD PRP RP VBD NN CC NN IN DT NN POS RB VBN NNS IN NN NN NN IN NN . DT CD NNS , DT CD DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NN VBG JJ NN NNS IN DT NNP , VBD IN CD NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP CD TO VB IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP . PRP VBD TO VB PRP$ NN IN DT NN POS NNS , WDT VBD VBN IN NNP , VBD JJ TO VB IN NNS IN NN VBD CC TO VB DT NNS IN DT JJS JJ NNS . NNS VBD RB JJ RB , '' VBD NNP NNP , IN DT NNP NNP NN . IN PRP VBP VBZ DT NNP NN NN WDT VBZ DT NN , NN IN NN , IN PRP MD VB IN PRP$ JJ NNS WRB DT NN VBZ CC WRB DT JJ NNS VBP . NNS CC NN NNS VBP DT NN TO VB DT IN VBG NN POS NN . EX VBZ DT NN WRB PRP MD RB VB DT NN IN DT JJR IN CD NNS IN DT NN . '' 
IN NN IN NNS MD VB , DT NN MD VB DT NNS NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP . DT NN NN VBZ VBN IN NN NN IN NN CC NNS . '' JJ NNS VBD RB RB VBP DT VBN JJ , VBD NNP NNP IN NNP POS NNP , DT JJ IN NN IN NN IN NN , '' PRP VBZ RB RB JJ TO VB WRB JJ DT NN VBZ IN DT JJR JJ NN CC JJ NN . '' 
JJ NNS IN DT NN VBP VBN PRP MD VB DT NN IN NNP NNP , DT NNP WP$ NN , NNP , VBZ JJ NN , DT NN WDT MD RB VB VBN IN DT NN . NNP NNP VBD RB VBD PRP VBD NN NN NN IN JJ , CC VBD RB VBN . CC IN DT NN IN NNP , NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD RB IN DT NN IN JJ NN NN NN IN JJ NNS VBP RB JJ : NN WDT VBZ VBG JJ NN RB IN JJ NN . DT NN VBD PRP MD VB DT NN , IN DT CD NNP , WDT MD VB DT NN . CC PRP VBD PRP MD VB PRP$ JJ NN WDT MD VB JJ CC JJ NNS IN NN IN DT VBG VBN IN NN IN NNP NNP CC NNP POS NNP . CD IN DT NNS WDT NNP CC RB JJ NNS IN NNP VBP VBN IN NN DT NN IN JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
DT JJ NNS IN JJ NN VBP VBN VBN IN NN NNS , CC DT VBP RB VB IN PRP VBZ JJ NN IN NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNPS . NNS IN NN POS NN NN IN DT IN NN VBP IN NN MD RB VB IN JJ , NNP NNP VBD . '' NN VBZ VBN DT , '' PRP VBD . JJ NN NN , DT JJ NN , VBZ VBN VBN IN NNS . IN CD NN , DT NN VBD VBN TO CD JJ NNS . NNS VBD IN PRP MD VB DT NN POS NN NN IN CD NNS IN CD NN . CC IN WDT MD VB TO JJ NN VBZ JJ . WP NNS VBP VBN PRP VBZ IN NN VBD VBN RBR JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP . CC VBD RB VB RB JJ IN DT NN IN JJ NN . '' JJ NN NN VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN NNS , NNP NNP VBD , CC JJ NNS VBP RB TO VB VBN . 
VBZ DT JJ NN VBP DT JJ NN CC JJ NN . DT NNS POS NN VBZ NN IN VBG RB TO NNS . '' MD RB VB IN DT NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP VBZ RB VB DT JJ NN PRP VBP IN NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN CC NN NN IN DT NNP NNP POS NNP NNP IN NNP . '' VBP VBN , RB , IN DT JJ NN VBZ JJ TO VBG DT NNS IN DT NN CC VBD IN DT NNS MD VB VBG JJ NN . '' JJ NNS VBP VBD DT RB JJ NN VBG RP WRB DT NN VBZ RB IN PRP VBP DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC EX VBZ DT NN TO VB RB IN DT JJ NNS , TO VB NNS WRB DT NNS MD RB VB TO PRP$ NNS . '' NNPS VBP DT JJ JJ NN . CD NN VBZ VBN PRP$ NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , CC PRP MD RB VB VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS CC JJ NNS , CC PRP VBP JJ NN MD VB RB RB JJ IN RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN IN NNP POS NNP CC NNP POS NNP IN NNP CC DT JJ NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP . NNS VBP RB VB DT NN MD VB RB RB , CC PRP VBP PRP MD VB VBN RBR RB IN PRP VBD VBN IN DT JJ NN . '' 
JJ NNS VBP VBN VBG PRP$ NNP NNS . NN VBP VBN DT NN IN JJS RB CC CD VBP RB VBN NNS IN JJR IN DT NN CC NN . RB CD NN VBD TO VB DT NN , IN DT NN POS NNS . PRP VBZ RB CD NNP NNS IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN . DT VBZ DT JJ NN : DT JJ NNS VBP NN WRB NN NNS VBP CD : CC JJ IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD PRP MD VB TO VB DT NNS RB . DT NN VBD TO VB RP PRP IN RB , IN PRP VBZ WP VBZ IN PRP$ JJ NN . JJ JJ NNS VBP PRP VBP DT NNS VBP JJ . PRP VBZ RB JJ CC PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP . EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NN CC DT NN NN . IN PRP VBP PRP DT JJ NN NN , PRP RB RB MD VB DT JJR JJ JJ NN . '' 
DT RBR JJ NN , PRP VBD , MD VB VBN TO JJ VB DT JJ NN TO VB DT IN DT JJ CC JJ NNS WDT MD VB DT NN IN NN NN . NNP NN NNP , NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , RB VBD DT NN VBD RB RB VBN . CD VBD RB JJ CC JJ , '' PRP VBD . CC RB PRP VBP DT JJR NN IN WP NN MD VB , CC IN JJS NNS RB VBP JJ IN DT NN . '' NNP NNP , DT NN IN CD IN CD , DT NN NN NN IN NNP NNP , VBD DT NN RB VBD TO VB DT JJ NN IN VBG IN DT NN . IN PRP MD VB IN PRP$ NNS , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ RB DT NN PRP VBD TO VB DT JJ NN . '' NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN IN NNP CD IN DT JJ NN VBN IN NNP NNP WDT VBD DT NNS IN NN NN CC JJ NNS IN NN VBD WRB JJ NN NNS IN NNP NNP VBN IN DT JJ NN WRB DT NN VBD IN DT CD POS . DT NNS VBD CD NN JJR IN DT JJ NN , RB CD NN JJR . 
DT NNP CC NNP NNP RB VBD DT NN . NNP RB VBD IN CD JJ NNS , DT NNP NNP CD CC NNP CD , VBD DT JJ JJ NN . IN DT NN , NNP VBD NNS VBG DT NNS CC NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS . DT NNP NNP VBZ VBG NNP , WDT RB VBD PRP VBD IN CD NNS IN DT NNS . IN DT NN IN JJ NN POS NN , NNP VBD IN PRP MD VB DT JJ NN TO VB PRP$ NN IN NNS VBN TO NN NN CC JJ NN . DT NN , VBN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD VBN RB IN NNS , IN IN NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS CC NNS . NN , NNP VBD DT NN IN DT NN POS NN NN CC NNS TO DT NNP . DT NN VBZ TO VB DT NN POS JJ NN NN IN PRP$ JJ NNP NN . 
CD NNS RB , NNP POS VBD VBN TO VB DT JJ NN IN VBG : PRP VBD PRP NN , '' PRP VBD . '' VBD RB IN NNS VBD TO VB DT JJ VBZ IN NN IN DT NN IN PRP VBD TO VB IN PRP MD VB JJ CC JJ . DT JJ VBZ JJ IN NN . PRP VBZ DT NN , CC RB RB VBP DT JJ NNS . '' CD NN IN DT NN VBD PRP$ NNS IN DT NN , VBD CD NNS RB , IN DT JJ NNS : WP , RB , VBZ NN . '' VBD VBG NN IN NN NN NNS , CC PRP RB VBD RB VB JJ NN IN WP NN VBD , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NNP IN NNP CC NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP . CD VBD , '' VBP PRP WRB PRP VBP PRP , '' CC WP PRP VBP MD RB VB WP NN RB VBZ . PRP VBD RB JJ TO PRP TO VB PRP RP . '' 
DT NN VBP NN IN DT NNS . DT JJ NNS IN DT NN NN IN DT NNS VBD DT NN POS NN IN VBG NN NN : DT NN IN JJS NN : IN JJR IN DT NN IN DT NN IN NN , DT JJ NN . CC IN DT NNS VBP VBN IN NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS , DT NN VBZ IN NNS IN NNS IN NNS IN NN NN CC JJ NN , DT JJ JJ NN NN . DT JJ NN VBZ VBN DT NN RB IN DT NNS CC NNS IN VBG NN RB , DT NN IN NN IN CD CD JJ NNS WP VBP VBN NNS . DT NN IN DT NN MD VB . DT VBG JJ NN VBZ TO VB IN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ JJ , RB IN NNS WRB JJ NNS VBP JJ , JJ IN DT NN IN NN CC NN NNS . CC JJ NN TO VB DT NNS IN NN , DT NN RB VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN , MD RB VB JJ . WDT MD VB DT NN NN TO DT JJ NN PRP RB VBD : IN DT NN NN CC JJ NN IN NN , VBN IN JJ NNS WDT VBP RB VBN TO VB JJ , VBD PRP TO VB NN . 
POS JJ NN VBZ IN PRP VBP VBG IN DT NN VBP RB VB TO VB IN DT JJ NN . CC IN PRP VBP RP IN DT NN , NN NN NN CC VB JJ JJ TO VB DT NN TO VB . '' DT JJ NN VBZ TO VB TO VB NN NN IN PRP VBZ NN . IN DT , PRP VBP TO VB DT NN TO VB VBN TO VB CC JJ NNS . RB VBP CC VBP IN NNS JJR IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB IN DT JJ NN , CC VB DT NN RB TO DT NN IN DT JJ NN CC NN CC VB RP DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS MD VB VBG JJ NNS , WDT VBP DT IN DT NN IN DT NN , VBG PRP TO DT JJ NN , WRB VBG JJ NNS . '' VBD VBG NNS IN DT NNS IN DT CD IN PRP$ NNS CC VB PRP IN IN PRP VBP RB VB PRP PRP MD VB PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP RB VBZ NNS RP JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP IN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP . '' RB VBP PRP VB DT NN IN NNS RB . '' 
IN DT NNP NN IN NNP , NNP , JJ NNS VBD CD NNS RB WRB PRP$ NN NNP , RB CD , VBD DT JJ NN IN VBG JJ . IN PRP$ JJ NN TO NNP , VBD NNP NNP , NNP POS NN , '' VBD TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ IN DT NNS CC VB WP PRP VBD . '' RB JJ NNS VBN IN DT JJ NN VBN TO VB NN MD VB VBN NNP IN JJ JJ NN RB . CD NN PRP MD VB JJ CC DT JJ PRP MD VB IN JJ NN . '' TO JJ NNS , VBG JJ NNS VBZ CD IN NN POS JJS NNS . CC CD CD TO CD CD NNPS VBP VBN TO VB JJ NN NNS , VBG TO DT NNP NNP CC NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN NNP , NNP , CC IN PRP VBP MD VB DT NN . IN PRP VBP IN VBG IN PRP$ NN , NNP , WP VBZ JJ TO NNS , DT JJ NNS IN NN CC NN NNS VBP VBN IN NN CC JJ NNS . 
WRB NN , WRB JJ NN , TO VB DT CD IN PRP$ JJ NN WP VBZ VBG JJS RB . IN DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP VBZ VBG IN NN POS NN DT JJ NN . IN CD , VBG IN IN DT NN NN , NNP VBZ VBG PRP$ NN , VBG DT NN CC VBG DT NN JJ IN NNS . CC IN DT NN JJ TO PRP$ , RB VBG IN NNS , CD IN NNP POS NN NNS , NNP , VBZ DT NN IN JJ NN , IN PRP VBZ RB JJR . NNP CC JJ , NNP VBZ VBG PRP$ JJ NN RB RB RB TO VB IN DT JJ NN IN NN . VBN IN DT JJ NN , NNP VBZ RB CC VBZ DT JJ NN . CC MD RB VB DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NN WP VBZ IN DT NNS . WP DT NN MD RB VB MD VB RB RBR JJ . IN DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NN , NNP CC NNS IN PRP VBP VBN TO VB RB RB , RB JJ NNS . 
NNP POS NN , WDT PRP VBZ VBN VBG IN DT JJ JJ NNS IN NNS VBG IN DT NN NNP NNP TO NNP NNP , VBZ VBN RP DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ JJ TO VB WRB . IN DT NNS IN DT NNS , EX VBZ NN JJ IN DT JJ NN NN PRP VBZ VBN , CD WDT VBZ VBN TO VB RB JJ IN NN . NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP NNP , VBZ IN RB VBG NN NNS MD VB IN DT NNS IN DT WP VBP NNS IN JJ , JJ NNS WP VBP NN IN DT NN POS NN . '' EX VBZ DT NN NNP POS NN VBZ RB JJ . NN IN NN NNS IN NN MD VB IN DT JJ NN RB RB IN IN JJS CD NN VBZ PRP VBP DT JJ NN . NNS WDT VBP IN VBN RB VBN : IN JJ NN IN NN TO NN IN NNS : VBD RB DT NNS PRP VBD VBN TO IN PRP VBD VBN TO VB DT JJ NN IN VBG RB . CC MD DT NN RB VBP PRP JJR IN PRP VBP PRP VBZ DT NN . VBZ RB PRP$ NN VBZ RB IN DT JJ NN : DT JJ NN , IN JJS : IN PRP VBP VBG DT JJ NN . VBZ DT NN NN TO VB DT NN WRB PRP VBP PRP$ NN . 
NNP CD NNS IN NN NN . RB IN DT VBP IN NN CD , DT NN IN NN VBN IN JJ NNP NN IN NN CD VBZ DT RBR NN IN CD IN NN VBN IN IN NNS ( NN , JJ NN CC RB IN ) IN NN CD . DT JJ NN VBZ CD NNS : DT JJ CD NNS . CC DT VBD IN DT JJ NN . NNP VBZ VBN , CC NN VBZ DT JJ . DT JJ NN IN NN NNS IN NN , WRB VBG VBZ NNS WDT VBD RB VBN TO VB CC VB NN . CC NN MD RB RB VB NN NNS , RB IN NN VBZ JJ . TO VB WRB , PRP VBP TO VB DT NN IN DT CD NNS . DT VBP NNS . NNP VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN , IN NN CD CC CD NNS . NN VBZ DT DT NN IN DT JJ NN ( NN VBP IN DT JJ NN ) CC DT NN ( NN IN NNS ) . IN DT NN NN , NN VBZ DT NN IN DT NN ( NN IN NNS ) CC DT NN ( NN VBN ) . RB DT JJS NN TO VB DT VBZ TO VB IN PRP VBD PDT DT NNS IN DT NN IN PRP VBD NN NN NN : NN NN NN MD VB JJ , CC NN NN NN MD VB . 
RB , NNS IN DT NN JJ NN MD VB IN DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NN NN VBZ RB VBN , VBG NNS IN NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN . CC DT NN NNS , CC NNS POS NNS IN NNS , VBD TO VB IN DT NN WRB NN VBD JJ CC VBG . DT NNS , VBG DT NN PRP MD RB VB TO VB JJ , VBN TO VB RB IN VB JJ NN NNS . IN DT NN NN VBD JJ TO PRP , WDT RB VBZ RB VB RP TO DT NN IN JJ NN IN NN NN IN DT NN POS NN CC JJ JJ NN . 
DT NN IN CD NN IN CD VBZ VBN JJ , NN NNS VBD . NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNPS , IN DT NN VBD IN IN CD NN IN JJ NN NNS VBP VBN NNS IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN . DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP , WP , IN JJ NNS , VBD TO VB VBN IN NNS IN DT NN IN NN , VBD PRP VBD IN JJS DT NN IN JJ NNS VBP JJ NNS . MD VB PRP VBZ RB JJ , '' DT JJ NN VBD . JJ NN IN DT IN DT JJ NNS PRP VBP DT NNS . PRP VBZ IN JJ NNS VBP VBG NN . '' JJ NNS CC NNS VBP IN IN VBG DT NNS VBP RB JJ . RB DT NNS VBP , RB , IN DT NN NNS DT NNS VBP VBN IN DT JJ NN MD VB JJ IN DT NN IN NNS . PRP VBZ IN RB , '' DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP VBD . WP VBZ WP PRP MD VB PRP . '' 
DT NNS VBP DT JJ NN CC MD VB NN , WDT VBZ JJ NN . RB VBZ DT NN . DT NN NN RB VBZ $ CD TO $ CD DT NN , JJR IN DT NN IN DT NN POS NN IN NN NN NNS . IN DT NN VBZ VBN RBS JJ IN NNS NNS CD TO CD , NNS VBD PRP VBD RB RB VBN IN NNS . RB , PRP VBZ VBG NN . NNP NNP , WP IN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS CC NNP VBD VBG NN NNS , VBD DT IN PRP$ NNS IN RB VBN DT . CC DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBZ VBN RBR JJ . CC VBP RB VBG RP DT NNS . '' NNS VBP IN . NNPS VBD PRP$ NNS VBD VBN CD NN JJ NN . NN NNP VBZ VBN CD CD NNS IN PRP VBD VBN IN CD , IN DT NNS VBG DT NN . DT NNP NNP NNP VBD IN DT NNS VBD CD NNS IN CD . 
RB VBN NN VBZ DT JJ '' NN TO VB NNS , VBG TO DT NN IN CD NNS WDT MD RB VB VBN IN DT JJ NN . DT NNS , DT RBS JJ JJ NNS IN DT NN , MD VB TO VB CD IN DT JJS NNS IN RB VBN NNS . NNS VBP RB VB EX VBZ DT NN TO VB NNS IN NN JJ TO DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP , DT JJ NN IN CD IN DT NNS . NNS IN DT NNS VBD VBN RB NN IN DT NNS IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS CC MD VB VBN JJ NN , RB IN DT NNP CD NN WDT VBD VBN VBN . DT JJ NN VBD IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ VBG TO VB NN IN PRP VBZ VBN VBG TO VB DT NNS IN DT RB VBN NNS RB IN DT NN IN DT NN NN VBD RB RB VBN RB VBN TO DT NN . 
NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBD , '' RB RB VB IN DT JJ NN WP VBZ , '' VBP RB VB NN NN IN PRP MD RB VB RB CC NN . '' '' CC , PRP VBD , '' JJR NNS , PRP VBD DT JJ NN . '' EX VBD DT NN TO VB DT NN IN NN IN JJ NN NN NNS , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN IN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . JJR NNS , PRP VBD , VBP TO VB RBR JJ , JJR VBG NNS . CC PRP RB VBP JJ NNS . '' NN VBZ VBN NN IN NN CD , PRP VBP RB RB VBG TO VB IN NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBP VBG TO VB IN NN RB , '' RB , PRP CC NNS VBD , WP VBZ DT JJS NN TO VB DT NNS CC RB VB PRP DT JJS NN IN VBG PRP$ NNS . 
DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN VBD JJ NN WRB CD NNS VBD DT NN VBG DT JJ JJ NNS CC VBG IN RB DT VBD RB VBN IN TO VB JJ . IN DT VBN JJ , VBD DT CD NNS , NNP NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , DT VBN NNS VBD IN DT NNS VBD VBN IN NN . NNS WP VBD DT NN VBD RB RB JJ TO VB IN NN NN IN DT RB VBN , PRP VBD IN DT NN IN DT NNP . RB , DT JJ NNS VBD JJR NNS , JJR NN NN CC JJR NN . DT JJ NN , IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , VBD DT NNS VBP DT JJ NN IN NN . DT JJ NNS VBD DT NN , VBG IN DT CD NNS VBD VBN RP JJ NNS IN DT NN NNS CC IN PRP VBD RB VBN IN EX VBD JJ NNS IN VBG DT JJ NN . 
POS NNP CC NNP NNP , EX VBD DT RB VBN JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBZ . '' VBD JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . IN DT NNP , NNS VBD RB NN IN NN . NNS VBD RB JJ CC VBD RB VB NNS IN VBG RP WRB TO VB NNS NN . '' DT JJ NNS RB , PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN . PRP VBD VBN JJ NN CC VBD VBG JJ NNS WRB PRP VBD TO VB IN DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN VBZ : DT JJ , JJ NN : VBD RB . NNS VBD IN VBN NN IN JJ , JJ NNS , RB NNS WRB NN VBD RB VBN , '' NNP NNP VBZ . CC , PRP VBZ , '' VBD PRP RB VBD DT JJR NN IN VBG . '' JJ NNS , IN DT NNS IN NNP CC NNP NNP , VBD RB JJ JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP NNS . MD WDT VB DT NN . CD NNS RB , NNS VBP VBN RP PRP$ NN . 
DT VBZ IN DT CD JJ NNS VBN IN RB VBZ RB DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBP RB RB DT JJ NN IN DT . VB RB VBN TO VB IN PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN VBG NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN NN CC NN IN NNP IN NNP , NNP , WDT VBD IN DT JJ NN VBN IN DT JJ NN . NNS , VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN , VBP JJ NNS IN JJ NNS , CC NNS VBP VBN VBN IN DT JJ NNS , CC RB IN JJ NN . CD IN PRP VBP RB VB RB RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP . DT JJ NNS RB VBP RB VB JJ NN , CC DT NN MD VB RB IN DT NNS MD RB VB PRP , PRP VBD . DT NNS VBD IN NN NN RB VBD DT NN NN , PRP VBD . NNP , NNP NNP VBD , NNP MD VB JJR NN IN NNS IN PRP VBZ TO VB DT NN RBR RB IN DT IN DT NN NNS VBP , VBG TO DT RBR JJ JJ NN . WDT MD VB DT NNS IN DT NNP NN . 
NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP IN IN DT VBG NN , DT NN JJ NNP IN VBN NN IN DT NN WDT MD VB NN IN JJ NNS IN NN VBD DT NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP IN VBG PRP JJ IN DT NN . DT NN , WDT VBZ NN CC NN NN , VBD PRP VBD RB VBG IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . CC PRP VBD RB VB NNS TO VB NN . 
DT NN POS JJ NN NNS , PRP VBD , VBD IN $ CD , VBG NN CC JJ NN , CC PRP VBZ TO VB DT JJ NNS IN DT NN IN $ CD . DT NNS VBP RB VB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN , WRB DT NN VBD VBG TO VB DT JJ NN . NNP NNP POS NN VBZ VBN NN : IN VBG JJ NNS , IN NN : CC PRP$ NN RB VBZ PRP$ CD NNS IN CD JJR NN NNS . PRP VBD JJ NNS , RB DT NN TO VB NN RB IN NNS , NNS , NNS CC NNS IN DT JJ NNS . DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBZ RB VBN VB PRP VB DT RBR JJ NN . CC PRP VBZ RB RB VBN RP IN NNS CC NNS : DT NNS IN NNS VBZ JJR IN DT NNS VBD IN NN . '' VBZ DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD , NNP PRP VBP PRP IN PRP$ JJ JJ NN . '' 
NNS WP$ NN VBZ JJR IN PRP VBP IN CD , VBP JJ NN NN , VBP JJ CC VBP DT NN NN IN JJ NNS , IN NN , VBP RB VBN TO VB DT NN JJ RB . DT NN VBZ RB JJ TO VB . DT NN NNS MD VB NNS VB DT NN PRP VBP JJ NN , VBG IN NN WDT NNS IN CD MD VB RBR JJ TO VB . DT NN RB VBZ IN NNS VBP TO VB PRP$ JJ NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP , WP VBD VB DT JJ NNP NNP NNS IN VBG NN NN IN NNS . DT NNS VBD VBN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NN IN NNP , NNP , CC PRP MD VB VBN IN DT NNP CD NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . DT NNS VBG NN VBD IN DT JJ NN IN NN NNS IN DT NNS VBG DT NN . 
NNP NNP NNP VBD PRP$ JJ NNP NN IN CD . DT NN , PRP VBD , MD VB DT JJ : PRP MD VB PRP VBD VBN IN DT NNP NN . NNP NNP , WP VBZ NN , VBD VBN VBN NN IN DT NNS IN NNS WP VBD DT NN . PRP VBD TO NN IN PRP , RB , MD VB VBN . CC , TO PRP$ NN , DT NN VBD DT NN IN DT NN . CC VBD , PRP VBZ VBN TO VB JJ , '' '' NNP NNP VBD . CC PRP VBD DT NN RB CC PRP VBD PRP RB . '' DT NNS RB VBD . IN DT JJ CD NNS , NNP NNP RB VBD NNP NNS CC VBD PRP TO VB RP WRB PRP VBD TO VB JJ TO DT NN , NNP . CC , PRP VBD , DT NNS VBD PRP PRP VBD RB JJ . RB , IN CD , NNP NNP , RB VBN , VBD RB IN DT NN PRP VBD VBN RB , DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . DT NN , PRP VBD , DT NNS VBD TO VB PRP . DT NN VBD VBG . VB IN PRP MD , IN NN NNS , DT NN POS NNS MD RB VB DT NNP NN TO VB NNP NNP POS NNS . 
IN NN , EX VBZ JJ NNS TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN CC NN VBZ PRP DT JJ NN : IN DT NN CC JJ NN MD VB , IN CD NN VBZ PRP , DT NN NN , IN NNS MD VB RB VBG . IN CD , DT JJ NN VBN NNP . NNP VBD DT JJ NN IN CD NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN WP VBD TO VB PRP VBG IN DT NN , CC IN DT JJ JJ NNS . NNP VBD CD NN IN NNS DT JJ NN CC VBD PRP PRP MD VB RB IN DT JJ NNS . PRP VBD DT JJ IN PRP MD RB VB JJ WP VBD DT NN IN PRP CC RB MD RB VB WRB PRP$ NNS MD VB RP . CD NNS RB , CD NN IN DT NNS WP VBD DT JJ NN VBD VBN RBR , VBN IN CD NN IN DT JJ NN . IN DT NN IN JJ NN VBN IN NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNS VBD RB VBN TO VB VBN IN DT NN DT NN IN NN CC VBD , JJ NNS , IN DT NN , NN NN . CC NN VBZ JJ , '' DT NN MD VB . VB PRP VBP VBG TO VB PRP RB . VBP RB VB : NN VBZ VBG TO VB DT JJ , '' CC RB IN PRP MD VB . DT JJ NN VBD DT JJ NN IN NNS CC DT NN VBD IN DT JJ CC JJ NN , VBG PRP$ NNS IN PRP VBD IN PRP$ NNS , VBG PRP RB WP TO VB IN DT NN IN NN NN CC VBG PRP WDT VBP NN MD VB JJ . DT IN DT JJ NN VBD RP VBG RB PDT DT NN IN VBG NN CC VBD VBN DT NN IN CD NNS RBR . 
PRP VBZ PRP MD VB VBN TO VB , CC DT JJ NN , PRP VBZ , VBZ PRP$ JJ NNS . NNS VBP RB VB NN TO VB JJ , '' PRP VBD . 
IN PRP VBD RP IN DT NN , WP VBD VBN RB IN TO VB IN , RB VBD DT NN IN NN : DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN WRB PRP$ NN VBD . PRP VBD JJ TO VB DT NNPS IN DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN IN NNS PRP VBD VBN IN NN VBD CD NNS IN PRP$ NN . CC IN PRP VBP RB JJ TO VB , DT NN VBZ IN IN IN JJS CD JJ NN NNS RB VBG IN NN NNS CC NN NNS , DT NNPS MD RB VB VBN RP , RB . CC , IN DT NN , MD DT JJ JJ NN CC JJ IN NN TO VB NNS CC DT JJ NN . VBG NNS VBZ DT RB JJ NN WDT MD VB NNS IN NNS DT TO VB DT NN CC TO VB PRP RB . RB CD CC CD IN IN DT CD NNS TO VB DT NN RB VBZ IN DT JJ NN . CC IN DT RB NN , JJ NN VBZ RB DT NNS NN , IN WDT NN CC DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS CC VBN NNS MD VB RB JJ DT NN IN JJ NN . CC PRP VBP IN WP MD VB RB VBN TO VB DT JJ VBG , NNS CC DT JJ NN IN NNS VBP JJ NNS , CC DT NNPS VBP DT , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP CC NNP IN NNP . POS NNP IN NNP . '' RB VBP WP VBZ JJ TO VB DT JJ NN . '' IN , VBD NNP , WP PRP VBP VBG VBZ IN JJ NN . IN PRP VBP RB VB , NN RB MD IN DT JJ CD NNS . '' 
POS VBP VBG NNS TO VB PRP$ NNS CC VBG DT NNS VBP IN DT NNS RB IN DT JJ IN NN NN VBZ DT NN CC RB DT JJ JJ , '' PRP VBD . CC VBP JJ DT IN PRP$ NNS MD VB DT NN , VB RP IN DT NN CC NN IN PRP . '' IN NNP , NNP NNP , CD , VBD PRP VBD JJ . CC RB VB DT NN , '' PRP VBD . PRP MD RB VB TO VB DT NN . VB PRP$ NN NN NN IN NNS CC PRP VBP JJ RBR . DT RB VBP . '' NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP , VBD DT NN VBZ VBN DT NN NN , CC VBD JJ JJ NN IN PRP MD VB RB IN NNS MD VB JJ . CC RB VBP CD TO CD NNS DT NN , '' PRP VBD . DT NNP . VBD TO VB CD CD NNS IN DT JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD . VBN IN PRP$ NN , RB CD IN DT NNS VBP IN NNP , '' PRP VBD . 
RB , NNS VBD DT JJ NN TO VB DT JJ JJ JJ NN WDT VBD VBG DT JJ NN NNS IN NN NN . DT JJ NN VBD VBN IN RB CD CC DT JJ NNS WRB NNS VBD IN DT NN NN VBD DT JJ NN IN NN NN NN IN RB NN . DT NN VBZ RB VBN NN : NN NN NN VBZ RB RB DT JJ IN NN , DT NNS VBP , IN PRP VBZ RB JJ IN DT JJ NN RB VBZ NNS . DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN , VBD IN NNS MD VB VBN DT NN TO VB IN DT JJ NN VBN NNS . DT NN VBZ TO DT NN IN JJ NN . WP VBZ JJ IN NNS MD RB RB VB JJ IN NNS CC IN DT NNS IN JJ NN . IN DT NN , DT NNS VBD VBG TO VB IN NN , WDT VBZ NN NN , VBD RBR JJ IN DT NN IN VBG DT NN IN NN NN IN NNS WP VBD RB VBN DT JJ NN NN . 
NNP NNP VBZ VBN IN PRP$ NN , NNP , IN WP PRP VBD DT JJ NN . NNP POS NNP CC NNP NNP NNP NNP '' ( NNP , CD ) , CC PRP$ NN , NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP PRP$ NN VBD PRP$ NN IN RB VBG PRP$ JJ NN , PRP VBD IN DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN CD . CD NNS , '' PRP VBD . 
WP VBZ JJR , NNP NNP VBD : EX VBZ NN IN EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN NN NN IN NN . IN DT NN VBZ JJ NN , DT JJ NN VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NN NN , CC JJ NN IN DT NN . PRP VBZ VBN IN IN IN DT , NN VBZ RB VB . '' IN JJ NNS , IN DT NN NN NN VBZ NNS IN VBG NN , RB IN DT JJ NN IN NN MD RB RB . IN DT , DT JJ NN , CC NNP , MD VB DT NN IN DT NN CC , IN NN , JJ NN . NNP NNP VBZ DT DT NN CC DT JJ NN NN IN NNP , CD IN DT NNS WDT VBP RB VBZ IN NNS WP VBP DT NN TO VB TO VB NNS IN NN NNS CC NNS POS CC JJ NNS NNS WDT VBP IN NNS MD VB DT NNS VBN TO PRP . VBZ RB RB VBZ DT NNS POS NN IN NN CC PRP RB VBZ TO VB NNS IN NN NN PRP . PRP VBZ , RB , JJ NNS IN DT NN NN NN . WRB PRP VBD PRP RB TO VB PRP$ NN IN DT CD NNS , PRP VBD : NN POS DT NN IN VBG DT NN IN VBG CC VBG DT NN . PRP$ NN IN DT NN VBZ IN DT NN NN MD VB DT NN , JJ NN NN NNS MD VB DT NN POS NN VBP PRP VBZ RB JJ IN IN DT NN MD RB VB VBN . '' CC WP IN NNS VBP IN , IN NN , DT NNS MD VB NN . CD VBZ PRP$ JJ NN , '' NNP VBD . CC VBP VBG TO VB PRP PRP$ NN , CC DT NN VBZ IN PRP MD RB VB VBN TO VB NN PRP VBP VBZ JJ . '' 
NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD WP VBD VBN , RB . WP VBZ NNS VBZ NNS , '' PRP VBD . MD PRP VBP VBG TO VB DT NNS . '' 
MD VB DT NN VBD NN IN PRP$ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN RB PDT DT JJ NN IN NNS VBN IN DT NNS , PRP VBD , JJ NNS IN JJ NNS IN NNP VBP VBN RB JJ . '' CD RBR JJ , JJ NN IN NN NNP NNS VBN NNP CD IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ VBN DT NNS VBP . IN WP VBP VBN IN DT NNP CC NNP NNS , JJ CD NNS CC NNS IN JJ NN CC NNS WP VBD CD JJ NNS IN JJ NNP NN IN IN TO CD NNS VBD TO VB DT RB JJ NN IN NN NN , VBN IN DT WP VBD VBG DT NN . CC IN DT NNS VBD RB JJ IN PRP VBD NN NNP , CC DT NN VBZ RB VBN RP IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP , IN NN MD RB VB DT NN IN JJR NNS , JJ NNS VBP . 
CD NN WP VBZ DT NN , PRP NN IN NN TO VB NNS CC VB , FW , DT VBZ RB PRP$ JJ NN , '' '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . '' VBP VBG IN VBG NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN CC NN IN DT NNP IN NNP . '' VBP VBG IN VBG NN . '' DT NNP . NNS IN IN DT NNP NNPS RB JJR IN CD NNS DT NN VBP VBN IN IN NN CC PRP$ NNS , CC IN CD NN . JJ IN DT RBS JJ NNS VBP IN NNS JJR IN CD : DT NN VBD RBR JJ TO VB IN VBG JJ NN CC IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN WDT MD VB DT NN IN VBG RP DT JJR RB JJ NN IN PRP VBZ IN JJR NNS . NNPS VBP IN IN RB DT JJS NN TO VB JJ CC JJ NNS , CC DT WP VBP NNS , NN CC JJ JJ NN CC NN NN , VBZ TO VB RB RB PRP CC RB PRP$ NNS CC NNS WP VBP IN JJ NN IN PRP . 
NNP NNS VBP RB VBG CD NN IN VBG DT NN POS NN IN JJ NN VBG DT NN IN JJ NN . CD NN NN NNS , NNP CC NNP NNP NNP , VBD PRP VBD VBG JJ NNS TO VB IN DT JJ NN RB RB IN JJ NNS WDT MD VB JJR VB JJ NN . NNP VBD TO VB TO VBN NNS . IN RB , RB , NNS VBP RB VBN IN DT NN . CC VBZ DT JJ NN RB , CC EX MD VB DT NN TO WP PRP MD VB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNP , NNP , CC NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP . DT NN IN DT NN , IN JJ JJ NNS , VBZ PRP$ JJ JJ NNS , NNS VBP . IN NN , IN DT NNS IN JJ JJ NNS IN NNS CC JJ NNS VBP VBN , DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ VBN JJ CC VBD RB , NN NNS VBD . 
POS PRP$ NN , PRP VBP TO NNS , '' PRP VBD . CC IN NNP , NNP NNP POS NN , NNP NNP , VBZ RB RB JJ TO PRP$ CC TO DT NN RB . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD PRP NNS TO VB JJ NNS , CC RB NN VBP , CC RB DT NN TO VB IN DT NNP NN . IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , PRP VBZ RP VBG IN IN CD NNS DT NN , WDT VBZ PRP CC DT NN IN DT JJ NN . DT WP VBP IN JJ JJ NNS VBP PRP$ PRP VBD VBN IN JJ NN NNS , PRP VBD . NNP JJ NN NNS RBR IN DT NNS IN NN , NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBZ TO RB VB RB IN PRP$ NNS , VBG RP PRP$ NN NN NN CC PRP$ NN NN , VBG NNS IN DT NN NN , VBG IN PRP$ NN TO VB NNS RB IN DT NN CC IN PRP$ NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN . 
IN JJ NNS , DT NNS VBP , NN MD VB VBN , RB JJ , CC JJS NNS VBP VBN TO VB IN PRP . VBG TO VB DT NN , VB DT NN CC VB DT NN NN , DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNS . JJ VBZ JJ IN VBG DT NN : DT JJ NN , DT NN NN , DT NN NNS CC NN NNS VBN IN NN CC NN : VBP VBN IN NN . JJ NNS IN NN CC NN VBP VBN RP NN RB . NNP , CC RB NN , DT JJ NNS VBN IN DT JJ NNS , VBD DT NN . NNP NN CC NN NN NN , NN NNS , NN NNS TO DT NNS , CC JJ NNS VBP TO VB TO DT NN IN DT NN . WRB DT NN VBZ VBN , DT NN VBN CC DT NN VBD , DT JJ NN IN NNS JJ NNS RP , VBG DT NN TO JJ . DT NN IN NN IN NN '' VBZ VBN NN , CC PRP VBZ JJ IN NN . CC PRP VBD VBN , NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NN RP , IN DT NNS NNS MD VB VBN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN , DT JJ NN IN DT NN , IN NN , CC DT JJ NN IN JJ NN . 
DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBD IN JJR IN NN IN DT JJ NNS IN NNP , NNP CC NNP VBD RB VBN IN NNS RB IN NN CC IN PRP VBD DT NN IN JJ NNS TO VB JJ NNS . DT NN VBD NNS VBG JJ NN , JJ NN IN NNS , NNS VBP IN DT NN CC JJ NN : JJ NNS VBD RB JJ IN DT JJ NN , WDT VBZ DT NN RB RB IN NN . NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP , VBD DT NNS NNS IN DT NNP NNPS VBD JJ , IN NNS IN DT JJ CD NNS IN DT NN RB CD NN IN DT JJ NN JJ NN ( DT NN MD RB VB JJ NNS NNS ) . PRP VBZ RB CD NNS CC PRP VBZ VBG RB , '' NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN POS NN . NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN JJ NNS IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD PRP VBD RB RB TO VB DT NN IN DT NN NN . VB VBZ NN IN DT NNS TO VB , '' PRP VBD . 
EX VBP CD JJ NNS IN NNS , NNP CD CC NNP CD . NN CD , WDT NNS IN DT NN POS NN TO VB NN , RB VBZ IN NN CC NN . NN CD , DT RBS JJ NN IN DT NN , RB VBZ IN NN CD , CC VBZ IN NN NN ( DT NN VBG TO VB JJ RB ) , VBN IN JJ NN NN . $ CD NNS MD RB VB VBN IN NN , NN CC JJ NNS , VBG TO DT NNP NNP NNP . NNP NNP VBD IN DT NN MD VB JJ NNS TO VB NN NNS CC JJ NNS IN NNS NN , CC MD VB IN VBG DT JJ NNS TO VB VBN IN JJ JJ NNS , IN JJ NNS IN DT NN VBP VBN . IN NNS VBP IN RB JJ NN NN CC JJ NN MD RB VB DT NNS IN NNP CD NNS , NNP NNP VBD , PRP VBD RBR JJ TO VB IN VBG DT NN RB IN VBG NNS TO VB NN . 
IN PRP VBP VBG PDT DT NN IN NNS CC PRP VBZ PDT DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNP WP VBD VB DT NN . DT NN VBD RB IN NN NN IN NN , RB IN JJ JJ NN NNS . IN VBG IN DT NNS , NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NNS NNS , VBD NN IN DT NN MD VB DT NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNPS . '' CC NNP NNPS NNP VBD JJ IN VBG PRP MD RB RBR VB IN DT NN . NNP CC JJ NNS RB VBP JJ NNS IN VBG IN TO VB PRP$ NN NNS . DT CD NNS IN DT NN VBD RB VBN TO VB DT NN CC TO VB NN NN IN WDT NNS RB VBD NNS IN PRP$ NNS IN DT NNS MD RB VB IN PRP VBD DT NN . IN PRP VBD IN DT NNS , JJS NNS VBD PRP$ NN NN VBD VBN , CC PRP VBD TO VB PRP VBD JJR IN DT CD NNS IN DT NNS VBD PRP$ NN . CC NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ NN IN DT NN IN NN NNS NN IN NNP , VBD , '' DT JJ NN , DT NN VBD RBR IN DT NN NN . '' 
NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNPS , VBZ PRP VBZ TO VB NN WRB PRP$ NN VBZ , IN NNP CD . CD VBP VBN VBG IN JJ NNS IN PRP VBD VBG TO VB RP PRP$ NN , CC PRP$ NN VBZ IN NNP CD , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP RB VBN DT JJ NN IN IN PRP . '' VBN IN NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP VBZ VBN IN NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN CC PRP$ NNS IN NNS IN NN NN , JJ NN CC NN NN . PRP RB VBZ VBN JJR NNS IN DT JJ NN JJ , VBD PRP$ NN , NNP NNP . '' VBP PRP VBZ VBN DT JJ NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN IN NN CC NN NN NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . PRP VBZ RB VBD PRP$ NNS CC DT NNS PRP VBD VBD RB JJ NNS IN DT NN . '' NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD NNP NNP POS NN . PRP VBZ RB JJ , PRP VBZ DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . 
IN DT JJ NN IN NNS , DT NN IN DT NN NN IN NN , VBZ WP VBZ IN DT NN VBZ NN , VBZ DT JJ , CC NNS JJ , NNS VBP NNS IN PRP$ NN , NN NNS VBP . PRP VBZ CD NN IN NN TO VB TO VB IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN NN , NN NNS VBD . PRP MD VB RB DT IN PRP TO VB WRB TO VB PRP . '' NNS WP VBP CC VBP DT NN NN IN NNS VBP VBN IN JJ CC VBN IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC , PRP VBD : NNS VBP VB TO VB DT NNS WDT VBP IN JJ NNS IN NN . PRP VBP VB TO VB DT NN IN DT NNS CC NNS IN NNS WDT VBP VBG IN PRP$ NN . '' PRP VBZ DT RB JJ IN NNS TO VB JJR IN PRP VBP , NN NNS VBD . IN DT JJ NN , NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP , VBD NNS TO VB DT NN IN NNS PRP VBD VBG , VBG IN IN NN MD VB PRP RB , PRP VBD DT NNS . 
CC DT NN NN WDT VBZ VBN VBG NNS IN NNS VBD JJ NNP IN PRP VBD VBN NNS IN CD IN DT CD JJ JJ NN NN NNS IN PRP$ NNP NN . IN DT VBG CD NNS , DT NN VBD VBD PRP VBD RB RB VBP IN PRP VBD VBN VBN IN NNS CC IN VBN JJ NNS . IN DT JJ NN NNP , DT NN , VBG JJ NN NNS , VBD IN NN IN DT NN NNS NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBN IN PRP$ NNP NN VBD VBN IN NN . PDT DT NNS VBN IN DT NN WDT RB VBP IN PRP$ NN VBD JJ NNS VBN IN VBN JJ NNS IN NNP POS NNP NNP , WDT VBD IN NNP NNP POS NN , NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP VBN CD JJ NN TO VB NNP NNS IN DT NNS , CC DT CD VBD IN IN DT JJ NN , '' PRP VBD . CD IN DT NN NNS VBD JJ . PRP VBD DT JJ NN NNS IN NNP . '' 
IN PRP VBD RP IN DT NN , WP VBD VBN RB IN TO VB IN , RB VBD DT NN IN NN : DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN WRB PRP$ NN VBD . PRP VBD JJ TO VB DT NNPS IN DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN IN NNS PRP VBD VBN IN NN VBD CD NNS IN PRP$ NN . CC IN PRP VBP RB JJ TO VB , DT NN VBZ IN IN IN JJS CD JJ NN NNS RB VBG IN NN NNS CC NN NNS , DT NNPS MD RB VB VBN RP , RB . CC , IN DT NN , MD DT JJ JJ NN CC JJ IN NN TO VB NNS CC DT JJ NN . VBG NNS VBZ DT RB JJ NN WDT MD VB NNS IN NNS DT TO VB DT NN CC TO VB PRP RB . RB CD CC CD IN IN DT CD NNS TO VB DT NN RB VBZ IN DT JJ NN . CC IN DT RB NN , JJ NN VBZ RB DT NNS NN , IN WDT NN CC DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS CC VBN NNS MD VB RB JJ DT NN IN JJ NN . CC PRP VBP IN WP MD VB RB VBN TO VB DT JJ VBG , NNS CC DT JJ NN IN NNS VBP JJ NNS , CC DT NNPS VBP DT , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP CC NNP IN NNP . POS NNP IN NNP . '' RB VBP WP VBZ JJ TO VB DT JJ NN . '' IN , VBD NNP , WP PRP VBP VBG VBZ IN JJ NN . IN PRP VBP RB VB , NN RB MD IN DT JJ CD NNS . '' 
NNP NNP POS NNS VBD RB JJ TO VB NN TO DT NNS WDT NNS IN JJ NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN TO VB , VB NNS , JJ NNS CC VB NN IN VBG IN VBN NN NNS . CD NNP NNP , NNS RB VBD IN DT NN NN CC IN DT JJS NN VBD IN IN JJ NN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ JJ NN VBN TO DT NN JJ NN . CC PRP VBD IN DT NN CD NNS RB CC PRP VBD RB CC VBD NN , PRP MD RB VB PRP VBD IN DT JJ NN . '' IN JJ IN DT NN POS JJS NNS VBD CC VBD VBG IN NN NN IN DT JJ JJ NNS , PRP VBP VBN TO NNS , NN , NN CC RB NNS TO VB PRP . NNP NNP , NN NN IN JJ NNS CC NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN RB DT IN DT NN IN DT NN MD VB VBN RB TO CD JJ NN : POS VBP DT VBG TO NN DT NN IN , DT NNS VBG JJ : CC IN DT NN IN NNS PRP VBP RB : WRB VBP TO DT NN TO VB . '' 
PRP VBZ RB JJ TO VB NN NN NN NN NNS : JJS IN DT NNS VBP PRP$ NNS RBR RB IN DT RB VBN NN , CC JJ NNS VBP IN NN NNS VBP RB VBG NNS IN DT VBG NN RB IN VBG NN IN NNP . CC IN CD , WRB NNP NNP VBD PRP$ NNP NNP NN , DT NN IN NNS VBN EX VBZ VBN TO CD IN CD . RB , DT NN POS JJ NN NN VBZ VBN CD NN IN CD . IN NNP , JJ NN VBZ JJ . IN CD , PRP$ NN IN NN NN CD NNS . IN CD , IN NN VBD TO CD . CC IN NNP NNP POS NN IN NNP VBZ DT NN , NNS IN JJ NNS IN NNS PRP VBZ VBN VBN IN MD RB VB DT NN . DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP$ JJ NN VBZ TO VB NNS IN RBR JJ NNS , MD VB VBN IN VBG TO VB NNP NNP POS JJ NNS IN DT JJR NN IN JJ NN NN . 
DT NN IN NNS , PRP VBD , VBD TO VB RP DT NN : VBG JJS NNS RP DT NNS IN VBG JJR NNS IN DT NN : CC RB VBG NNS NNS IN PRP$ JJ NNS DT NN PRP VBD IN DT NN . PRP VBD DT NNS IN PRP$ NN TO VB PRP . NNP NNP VBD IN NN VBD RB JJ . IN NN , IN PRP$ NN , WDT PRP VBD VBD JJ , EX VBD DT NN IN NNS IN NNS DT NNP . EX VBD JJR NNS IN DT NN CC NN IN IN DT NN . CC IN DT NN VBD NN IN CD NNS , CD IN PRP IN NN VBD TO VB VBN IN DT CD NN CC CD NN IN DT NN DT NN IN NNS VBG IN NNS MD VB CD TO CD . IN VBG JJ NNS IN PRP$ JJ NNS , NNS MD VB RP WRB TO VB NN CC NN , NNP NNP VBD . IN PRP MD VB TO VB RB IN DT NNS IN DT NN , IN NN , WDT MD VB DT JJ IN WP PRP VBD VBG WRB PRP VBD DT NN CC VBD VBG CD CC CD NNS IN DT JJ NN NNS , VBG DT MD RB VB RP , CC VBG TO VB IN NN NNS IN PRP MD . 
IN PRP VBD NN CC VBG DT VBD RB NN TO DT NN , PRP MD VB , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC IN PRP VBD TO VB , PRP MD VB RB JJ IN PRP RB MD RB VB PRP . NNP NNP POS NN IN JJ NNS VBZ IN DT JJS : PRP VBD PRP VBZ VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN CC PRP$ JJ NN IN NNS NNS , IN NN NN CC NN IN DT NNP CC VBG . IN NN , PRP VBD , VB CD NN NN , IN DT NN . VBZ DT NN IN CD NNS . RB VB PRP$ JJ NN , DT NN WDT VBD IN PRP$ NN , RB VBG DT NN CC NN PRP MD VB VBN . WRB PRP VBP , VBP DT JJ NN RB . DT NN VBG DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBZ VBN IN NN NNS VBP : IN JJS NNS , DT JJ NN NN IN NN NNS IN JJR NN CC VBG RB . PRP RB VBZ JJ IN NNP NNP POS NN IN , IN JJS IN NN , PRP MD VB JJ NN IN DT NN WDT VBZ IN TO VB . 
DT NNP . VBD DT NN , NNP NNP NNP , MD VB VBN NN IN DT NNP . IN PRP VBD PRP$ NN . DT MD VB VBN JJ NN TO VB DT NN POS NN CC DT NN POS NN , CC DT JJ NNS VBP PDT DT NN MD VB VBN NNP NNP POS NN . IN PRP VBP VBG IN VBZ DT NN IN NNS WDT VBZ TO VB JJ NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NNP . NN . JJ NNS VBP RB JJ . PRP VBZ RB DT NN IN WRB JJ NNS VBP IN DT NN CC IN DT NN VBZ VBG VBN IN NNS IN NN . WP PRP VBP VBG IN VBZ DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . '' CC DT NN POS NNS VBP VBN JJ , DT JJ NNS VBP , CC JJ NNS VBG JJ NN VBP RB VBN VBN IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ NNS IN NN NNS . 
RBR IN RB , CD VBZ TO VB NNS TO VB IN EX RB VBZ DT NN IN NNS CC TO VB RP WP VBZ VBZ RB IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . VBG DT JJ NN VBZ VBN TO VB VBG CC VBG IN DT JJ NN IN JJS JJ NNS VBP JJ . DT NN VBD JJ NN VBZ DT JJ JJ JJ NN IN NN NN NN IN JJ NNS . NNS IN DT NN VBD VBN NNP , DT JJ NN NN WDT VBZ VBN DT RBS RB JJ NN IN NN NN NN IN DT NNP NNPS . ( NNP VBZ VBN TO VB IN NNS WP VBP NN RB VBP DT JJ NN IN VBG JJ NN . ) DT NN IN NNP VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . JJ NN NNS VBP VBN IN NN , DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBN IN JJ NNS . RB , DT NN IN NN IN DT NN MD VB JJ IN DT IN NN NN , CC EX VBZ DT NN TO VB IN PRP MD VB DT NN IN NN NN CC JJ NN . 
CC TO VB DT JJ NN , EX VBP DT NNPS , NNS IN DT JJ NN WP VBP DT JJ NNS VBD VBN IN NN NNS CD NNS RB CC WP VBP VBN IN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . VBG TO PRP$ JJ NN , NNP NNP , DT NNPS RB VBP CD NN NNS IN NN , DT JJ IN WDT VBZ TO VB VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN . DT NNS , IN NN , VB DT NNS IN JJ , JJ , JJ CC JJ NNS IN IN PRP VBP VB PDT DT NN . IN PRP MD VB PRP TO VB IN PRP VBP VBN RB RB . CD IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NN NN WDT VBD PRP RB VBD DT NN PRP VBD DT NN RB , WRB NNS VBD DT NN IN JJ NN . NNS VBD RB IN JJ NN MD VB TO VBG : IN IN DT NN TO VB JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN , CC TO NN PRP TO DT NN IN WDT PRP VBP JJ TO VB IN DT NN , VBG MD RB VB JJ . IN DT VBZ DT NN PRP VBD VBN IN CD NNS RB , CC PRP VBZ TO VB IN TO VB TO VB . 
DT VBD NNS , CC NN NNS , TO WP VBD IN DT JJ NN . VB DT NN WDT VBZ RB NNP CC PRP MD VB VBN POS JJ CC JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN NNS . PRP MD VB NN , IN VBG NN NN . PRP MD VB NNP POS NN , WDT VBZ VBN VBN IN NN . EX VBD RB NNS IN VBG NNP MD VB DT NN NN IN NN . UH , PRP VBD JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN NNP WP VBZ VBN DT NN TO NNP . CC PRP VBD IN IN IN JJS DT IN DT NN MD VB RP . NNP CC NNP VBD VBN , VBN CC VBN TO VB NN CC NN . PRP VBD JJ NNS IN NNP CC NNP . RB NN NNS VBD IN NNP MD VB JJ NN IN NNS IN JJ JJ NN . IN CD , DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBD NNP IN DT NN IN DT JJ NNS . 
NN VBZ RB JJ IN DT PRP RB VBP IN NN IN EX MD VB DT NN IN DT , '' NNP NNP VBD . EX VBP JJ NNS TO VB NNS RB IN PRP VBP NNS VBN RB CC VBN . NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBG IN DT IN RB . NNP NNP VBD IN TO DT JJS IN PRP$ NN DT NN NN VBN IN NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN VBN IN DT NNP NNPS IN NNP WDT VBZ VBG TO VB NNS RB . DT NNS VBP VBN IN DT NN IN DT NNS . PRP VBZ CD TO CD NNS IN DT NN TO VB TO JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD , CC DT NN VBZ CD CC DT JJ NNS . IN DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD IN CD NN NNS , VBG PRP IN DT JJ NN WDT VBD DT NN NN . DT NN VBD IN DT NNS , VBG DT NN IN PRP . DT NNS VBD RB IN CD NNS . PRP VBD CD IN VBD RBS JJ CC DT VBN IN CD NNS CC DT NN IN CD NNS . CD IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN , IN VBN IN JJ JJ NNS . 
IN PRP$ RBS JJ NN IN EX VBZ NN VBG NNP NNP TO VB IN NNP NNS , DT NNP NNP VBD IN DT JJ NN EX VBD RB JJ NN '' VBG DT NN TO DT NN IN NNS IN NNS WP VBD VBN VBN IN VBG PRP IN DT JJ NN . DT NN IN CD NNP NNP NNS WP VBD IN DT JJ NN NN , VBN IN DT NN IN NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN EX VBD CD NN JJR NNS NNS IN DT WP VBD DT JJS NN IN NN TO DT NN . DT NNS IN NN IN DT CD NNS VBD VBN TO DT IN CD JJ NNP NNP NNS WP RB VBD IN DT NN CC VBD DT NN IN DT NN IN NNP NNP , DT NN WDT VBD VBN TO VB NNS CC VB NN IN NNP JJ NNS CC NNP NNS IN DT NN . IN DT NN VBN TO DT NN , WDT VBD VBN NN TO NNP NNP , DT NNP NNP POS NN NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD DT NNS VBD POS JJS NN TO NN WDT NNP NNP VBZ VBN IN JJ NNS CC DT IN PRP$ JJ NNS . '' 
DT RBS JJ NN IN NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP VBZ JJ NN . IN DT NN IN JJ NNS TO VB CC VB DT NN NN IN NN NN IN IN JJ CC JJ NNS , NNS CC NN NNS VBP VBG PRP$ NN IN DT NN , NNS CC NNS IN NNP . WDT VBP DT NNS IN JJ JJ NNS VBD CD TO CD . PRP VBP VBG RB RB WRB RB JJ JJ NNS VBP JJ , CC WRB RB JJ VBP JJR IN PRP MD : IN NNS WDT MD RB VB RB RB . NNP NNS IN JJ NNS VBP JJR IN IN NNS IN DT NNS IN CD , CC DT JJ VBZ PRP$ NN IN CD CC CD , DT NNS WRB VBZ IN VBP JJ JJR NNPS VBP TO VB JJ NNS RBR CC RBR . NNP CC VBZ VBN JJ NNS IN CD CC CD IN RB CD NNS DT NN IN JJ NNS PRP$ NN IN CD , VBG TO DT NNP NNPS IN NNP NNPS , IN NN CC NN NN VBD JJ NNS IN DT NN IN NNS CD NN IN DT IN PRP$ JJ NNS . 
NNS VBP RB VBN . RB , PRP VBZ DT NN NN WDT VBZ IN DT , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ DT NN NN IN NN NN VBN RP IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN NNS RB . NNPS , IN NN , VBP RB JJ . IN NNS VBP RB , DT JJ NNP MD VB $ CD , IN DT NNP . MD VB $ CD TO $ CD CC DT NNP , CC VBN NN , JJ MD VB $ CD TO $ CD , VBG TO NNP NNP NNPS . DT NNS VBP RB VBN IN NN , RB , IN NNS MD RB VB RB JJR , VBG IN PRP$ NN . EX VBP NNS IN JJR NNS MD VB IN RB JJ NN . CC NNS TO NNS WDT VBP NN IN NNP . VBZ IN NNP VBZ NNS JJR IN IN NNP , IN NN , CC JJR IN DT JJ NN . JJ VBZ TO VB JJR JJ IN DT NNP NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNPS , VBN IN NNP , NNP . 
WRB DT NN VBZ RBR JJ IN CD NN , PRP VBZ RB JJ IN DT JJ NN TO VB VBN . PRP VBD IN NN NN . IN NNS VBP PRP IN DT JJR NN IN NNS , PRP VBD VBN DT NN POS NN , CC IN NNS NNS VBD RB VBN IN DT JJ NNS CC VBN IN PRP$ NNS . CC PRP VBZ VBN IN NN , WDT VBZ VBN DT NN IN JJ NNS , CC JJR RB , DT JJ JJ NNS POS NN . IN DT CD CD NNS IN DT NN IN NN CC DT CD CD IN JJ NN NN , CD NN VBP NNS . PRP VBZ JJ IN DT NN IN NN CC NNS VBZ JJR IN NNS , CC WDT VBZ VBN VBZ DT VBZ VBN DT JJR CC RB JJ NN IN NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP . DT NN NN IN DT NN POS VBG DT NN IN DT NN , DT NN CC DT NN , DT RBS JJ NN IN NN , VBZ CD NN CC IN CD IN CD . DT VBZ RB DT JJ NN IN NN NN CC IN DT JJ IN DT NN POS NN IN VBG NN NN . 
DT JJ NN VBZ RB RB JJ TO JJ NNS IN PRP VBD TO JJ IN DT JJ NN : PRP VBP RB RB JJ IN PRP VBP PRP VBP . JJ NNS VBP RB VBG IN VBG , CC NN , JJ NNS IN WP PRP VBZ IN TO VB JJ MD VB NNS VB RBR RB , JJ CC VB JJR RB , CC RB VB PRP$ JJ NNS . JJ NNS IN VBG VBP DT JJ NNS . DT JJ NN WDT JJ NNS VBP VBN TO VB JJ CC JJ CC JJ VBZ RB DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN . CC PRP MD VB VB NNS IN DT NN . RB , PRP VBZ DT NN WDT MD VB TO VBG DT NN , CC DT NNS IN RB VBD PRP . RB , IN , JJR CC JJR VBP PRP VBP VBN VBN RP IN DT VBG NN IN NN . CC VBP VBG PRP$ RB JJ NN , '' VBZ NNP NNP , WP VBZ NN IN DT NN IN JJ CC JJ NN NNS IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP . EX VBZ VBG NN IN DT JJ NNS MD VB RBR JJ IN PRP VBD . '' 
NN POS RB VBG TO PRP IN NNS VBP IN PRP$ NNS NNS CC RB VB PRP RB RBR JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN IN DT NNP POS NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP . '' VBP VBN NN NNS IN NNS IN CD TO CD NNS . PRP VBP VBN JJ CC JJ NNS WDT VBP RB JJ TO VB . '' NNP VBZ , IN JJ NNS IN NNS , VBZ VBN IN RB JJ NNS IN NN IN DT NN . JJ NNS WP VBP PRP VBP RB RB NN IN DT NN . NNP , PRP RB VBP JJ IN PRP , IN VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN , NNP CD NNS , DT NN , RB JJ NN WDT MD VB DT NN IN NNS , IN NNS TO VBG NNS . IN CD , DT JJS NN NNS VBP VBN , EX VBD CD NNS IN JJ NNS IN NNP NNP IN NNS WP VBD NN TO DT JJ NN . NNS VBP JJR NN IN DT NN MD VB DT JJ NNS , IN JJR NN CC NN , TO VB PRP IN PRP VBP JJ . 
NNP NNP NNP NN NN , NNP RB , NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP , NNP . PRP PRP VBD NN . IN DT NN PRP VBD CD PRP VBD DT JJ NN . CC WRB PRP VBD CD , PRP VBD DT NN WRB PRP VBD VBG RP PRP$ NN . PRP VBD RB VB RP IN PRP$ NNS , IN PRP VBD VBN RB TO VB IN PRP . RB , DT NN VBD DT NN , CC PRP VBD NN . PRP VBD IN DT NN IN CD TO CD NN WP$ NNS VBP RB VB RP IN NNS . PRP VBP RB JJ TO VB JJ IN NNS RB , IN PRP VBP NN TO VB PRP IN . CC PRP VBP NNS VBP TO VB DT IN DT CD NNS WP VBP DT JJ NN , EX VBP CD WP VBD PRP RB . DT IN DT NNS VBP : CD VBP RB RB JJ PRP VBZ IN IN , DT VBZ JJ . PRP VBP RB VB IN PRP VBD IN IN DT $ CD CC $ CD NN , CC PRP VBD VBN IN IN PRP$ NN . '' CC PRP VBP VBG DT NN IN NNS CC DT NN IN NNS IN DT JJ NN . 
NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP CD IN NNS IN NN IN RB JJ NNS VBD DT VBN NN IN DT JJ NNP NNP NN WP VBD IN NNS TO VB IN VBG NNS MD VB DT NN . PRP VBZ NNP NNP NNP , RB NNP . DT NN RB VBD DT NN IN DT NNP . NN WP VBD IN JJ JJ NNS IN JJ CC JJ NN . PRP VBZ NNP NNP NNP , RB NNP . 
VBG NNS , NNP NNP , WP VBD DT NN IN DT NN , VBD IN PRP MD VB JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNS IN NN IN NNP NNP , RB IN NNP NNP VBD IN IN PRP$ NN IN NNP NNP . IN DT NN , NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP , RB VBN IN DT VBG NN , VBG IN DT NN TO VB PRP$ JJ NN RB . IN DT NN , DT NN NNP IN NNP , VBN IN NNS IN NN VBZ DT NN , VBD TO VB DT NN POS NNS IN DT NN IN JJ NN NNS . DT NN , WRB DT NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , RB CD NNS VBD IN NNP NNP VBD DT NN WDT MD VB DT NN IN DT NN : PRP$ NN VBN IN DT NNS IN NN CC PRP$ NN NNS CC VBG RB JJR IN PRP$ CD NNS . 
NNP NNP VBD DT NNS TO VB IN DT NN NNS . '' IN NN IN IN DT JJ , JJ CC JJ NNS , DT NN IN NNS IN NNP WP VBD JJR IN JJ NNS VBZ VBN TO CD , RB IN CD IN DT JJ CD POS . DT JJS , NNP NNP , VBZ CD . DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN . RB , CD NNS VBD NNS IN CD , RB IN DT JJ IN CD IN CD , VBG TO DT NNP NNP . NNP NNP , CD , VBD PRP VBD DT NN TO VB IN NN . CC PRP VBD , PRP VBP RB JJ NN RB MD VB TO NNP CC NN , '' PRP VBD . PRP MD RB VB NNS IN DT NN TO VB IN CC VB WP DT NN VBZ IN . '' NNPS IN NN NNS VBP IN DT NN , IN NN IN IN NN NNS TO VB NNS . CC VBG VBZ VBN JJ , IN CD NN IN NNS . NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN CC DT NN IN JJ . RB DT NNS RB VBP DT JJ NN IN NN . CC RB RB JJ , '' VBP RB VB IN DT , CC PRP$ NN VBZ JJ , '' '' NNP NNP VBD . 
IN , RB NNS WP VBP DT NN MD VB JJ TO VB PRP JJ . JJ NN VBZ JJ , NN CC NN IN VBG DT MD VB TO JJR IN DT JJ NN CC DT MD VB IN JJ NN IN JJ NNS . PRP MD VB NN CC NN , CC PRP RB VBZ NNS : DT VBZ RB RB DT NN NN : PRP VBZ DT NN PRP . DT NN IN NNS RB , WRB PRP VBD TO DT NN NN PRP VBD VBN IN NNP POS NN , PRP VBD DT NNS PRP VBD VBN IN PRP$ NN NN VBD JJ CC VBD VBN IN JJ NNS , IN NNP CC PRP$ NN POS NN VBD RB VBN , CC PRP VBD RB VBN RB TO VB VBN NN . IN DT JJ NN , IN DT JJ NN , EX VBD RB JJ NN . PRP VBD NN VBN TO NN . '' IN DT JJ NNS IN WDT PRP VBD JJ NNS TO DT NN , PRP VBD DT NN VBG IN PRP$ JJ NN CC VBG JJ NN , CC IN VBG RB RB RB TO VB RP TO NN . CC PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN IN DT VBD DT NN POS WDT PRP RB VB WP PRP VBP VBG . PRP VBD DT JJ JJ TO VB . IN PRP VBD DT NN IN NNS IN VBG DT NN , PRP VBP PRP MD VB JJ . IN DT JJ NN , PRP VBP RB CC PRP VBZ VBN . '' 
NNS VBP RB VB TO VB PRP$ NN VBN RP IN NN NNS , '' VBZ NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP . NNP NNP VBZ JJ NN IN PRP$ NN NNS CC NNP . NNS , CC VBZ PRP MD RB VB IN PRP RBR : PRP$ NN VBD IN NN NN IN NN CD , RB CD NN JJR IN PRP VBZ RB . CC PRP VBZ PRP VBZ RB VB TO VB DT NNS PRP VBZ IN DT NN IN JJR NNS , WDT MD RB VB PRP$ NN . CC VBP TO VB DT NN PRP VBP CC DT NN PRP VBP . '' NN VBD IN VBG VBD TO VB RP NN NNS CC NN POS NN NNS MD VB NN IN DT NN VBN CD NNS RB CC RB VBN IN , RB IN PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NNS IN DT JJ NN . NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBD IN IN JJ NNS , WP VBD CC VBD JJ NN NN CC JJ JJ NN NNS , DT JJ NN MD VB NN IN DT NN IN RB CD NN . IN JJ NNS IN JJ JJ NN NNS , PRP VBD DT NNS RB JJR : DT NN IN JJ NN ( WRB CD NN IN JJ NNS VBD IN JJ , JJ IN DT IN VBN NN ) MD VB PRP CD TO CD NNS . 
IN RB VBG DT JJ NN , NNS VBP IN PRP VBP VBN DT NN NN IN NN NNS . NNS VBD DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN WDT NNS NN NN . DT NN , VBD NN IN DT NN NNP , VBZ IN NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN DT NNS VBD NNP , IN PRP VBP RB NNP NNP , VBD JJ NN NNS IN CD NNS RB IN DT JJ CD NNS . PRP$ JJ NN NNS RB VBD , TO CD NNS , IN CD NNS , DT NN IN CD NN . CC , DT NNS NN , DT JJ NNS VBD IN JJ CC JJ IN JJ NNS , VBG TO VB RB IN JJS NNS IN DT NN VBD VBN . IN PRP VBZ RB RB VBN WRB DT JJ NN NNS NN , DT NNS , VBN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBP PRP VBP WP DT NN VBZ : PRP VBZ VBN IN NN . CC PRP VBP IN PRP VBZ IN DT NN PRP VBD VBD PRP RB RBR JJ IN NNS TO VB DT NNS IN PRP$ NN . 
WRB DT NNS VBD JJ JJ NN , DT NN VBD RB IN VBG DT NNS , DT NNS VBD . IN JJ NN , PRP VBD , DT NN VBD DT NNS , VBD DT NN IN VBN NNS CC JJ NN IN VBG NNS RB RB . NNP NNS VBD PRP MD VB NN IN DT NNP CC NNP NNP TO VB NN NNS IN NNS IN DT NN . PRP VBD JJ NNS IN DT NN VBD VBN VBG . VBG DT NN IN NNS IN DT NN , DT NNP CC DT NNP POS NNP VBP VBN RP JJ NN NNS . NN VBZ IN ( CD ) CD : DT NN VBZ IN ( CD ) CD . NNP POS , VBN IN JJ NN CC NN , VBZ CD CD NNPS CC VBZ DT NN $ CD CD DT NN , VBG TO DT NNP POS NNP . DT JJR NNS VBP , DT RBR JJ PRP VBP TO VB NNS IN NNP POS . RB DT NN IN NNS VBP VBN VBN TO VB NNP POS CC NN RB JJR IN JJ , JJ NN IN NNS . IN JJ NNS DT NNS VBP JJ . 
CC NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , VBD DT MD RB VB RB JJ IN NNS RB VBG NN JJ . CC VBP RB VBN PRP IN NN , PRP VBP RB VBN DT NN , PRP VBP RB VBG NNP NN TO JJR IN CD , '' DT RB JJ NN WDT VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NNS , PRP VBD . VB IN PRP VBP DT JJ NNP , WP VB PRP VB . VB PRP VB DT NN , '' , DT VBZ JJ . PRP VBP IN JJ NN '' . '' DT JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD , CC CD PRP VBD MD RB VB RB RB . JJS NNS IN JJ NN NN VBP RB VBG JJ NNS IN NNS , PRP VBD , IN EX VBZ NN IN NNS TO VB IN JJR NNS CC JJ NNS TO VB NNP NNS IN JJ . EX VBZ DT JJ NN '' IN NNS VBP IN PRP VBP TO VB RB RB IN NN CC RB IN NNP , NNP NNP VBD , VBG , WP RB MD VB NNS IN NNS IN NNS RB RB . '' 
CD VBP RB IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC MD VB IN WP PRP VBP VBG PRP CC WP PRP VBP VBZ VBN VBN VBZ JJ IN PRP$ NN CC NN . '' DT JJ JJ NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBZ NNS IN IN DT NN VBZ JJ . CC IN IN JJ CC JJ CC RB JJ IN PRP$ NN , '' PRP VBD . WP VBZ RB JJS RB IN DT JJ NN IN NN IN DT NN IN JJ NNS WDT NNS VBP IN . IN JJS PRP VBD IN DT JJ JJ JJ NNS VBD VBN DT NN IN DT NN . '' VBZ DT PRP$ NN IN NNP . '' NNP NNP VBD . DT JJ NN IN VBG JJ NN VBD DT JJ NN . RB , IN DT NNS VBP JJ , PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP CC DT NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP . 
IN NN TO DT NNP NN CC DT NNS NN , DT NNS VBD NNS TO PRP$ NN NNS VBG IN NNS POS NNS MD VB VBN IN NN : NNS VBD RB . DT JJ NNS VBG IN NNS JJ JJ NNS TO PRP$ NNS : NNS VBD RB . CC NNS VBD VBG NNS POS NNS . PRP VBZ JJ , '' VBZ NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP CC NNP IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP . '' NNP NN POS NN VBD , IN PRP VBD DT NN NN NNS IN PRP$ NNS , PRP MD VB RP NN IN NNS MD VB NN IN NN . '' VBG TO NNP : CC DT VBG NNP NNP NNP NN : DT NN VBD RB VB NN : PRP RB VBD NNS IN IN DT NN CC JJ NNS TO VB NNS IN VBG NNS . NNP VBZ IN DT VBD NNS RBR RB TO NN NNS CC NNS , WDT VBZ NN . CC NNP NN VBD , '' PRP VBZ . VB RB VBN IN JJ NN TO NNS . '' 
NN VBZ VBG TO VB DT NNS IN NNS CC PRP VBZ VBG TO VB NNS IN DT JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NN POS NNP IN NNP , VBD IN DT JJ NN IN NNS , WDT VBD VBN IN NNP . NNP NNP NNP . CC VBZ VBG TO VB NN TO JJ , JJ NNS . '' NNS CC NNS IN DT NN NN NN RB VBD DT NN , VBG DT NNP NN JJ NNS IN VBG RB TO VB DT NN IN NNS RB IN JJ NN NNS VBP VBN DT NN IN JJ NNS . IN DT NN POS NN , DT NN IN JJ NNS VBD IN MD VB TO CD IN CD IN DT NN IN DT NN , IN DT JJ CD NNS MD VB VBN IN IN JJ CD , NNS VBD . IN DT NN , NNP NNP VBD DT NN NN MD VB DT RB CD NNS VBN RB IN NNP NNP DT RBS JJ JJ NN IN DT NNS IN DT NN . CD NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN JJR TO VB PRP$ NNS IN NN CC NN IN NNP NNP , '' DT NN VBD . 
NNP NNP NNP VBZ VBN VBN NN PRP , RB WRB PRP VBZ TO NNS WP VBP RB VBN DT JJ NN , PRP VBZ DT JJ NN : WRB VBD DT NN TO PRP . JJ NNS VBP JJ NNS IN NNS , IN NN , CC NN NN . CC NNP NNP , NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , WDT VBZ NNS TO VB IN JJ NNS IN NN , VBZ RB VB NNS IN NNS VBP DT NN . RB , PRP VBP PRP IN EX VBP DT NN IN NNS WDT VBP : PRP VBZ DT NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . EX VBZ DT JJ NN . JJ NNS IN PRP$ NN VBP VBN . PRP MD VB NN TO VB IN PRP$ NNS CC IN WRB PRP VBP VB , WRB PRP VBP NN . '' NNP NNP , IN JJ JJ NNS , VBD IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN NN : IN NNS IN DT NN TO JJ NNS IN NN NNS TO NN IN DT NN : MD VB JJR NN IN DT JJ NN . JJ NN IN DT IN DT NNS VBP CD POS NN IN NN VBZ RB VBN VBN , IN VBN NNS . CC RB IN EX VBZ DT NN , JJ NNS VBD , PRP MD VB IN DT NN IN NN TO VB PRP . 
DT NN VBZ DT JJ NN , WDT MD VB TO VB IN JJR NNS VBP IN PRP . IN DT NN NNS , IN NNS WDT VBP RB JJ , NNS , DT NN NNS JJ IN VBG , MD VB TO DT JJ NN , VBG DT NN WDT MD VB NN NN . VBN IN NN , DT NN VBN IN DT NN NN VBZ . DT JJ NN VBD VBN IN CD IN JJ NNS VBG IN NNS . DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNPS , VBD NN , VBD RP IN CD . JJ JJ NNS VBD PRP TO VB RBR JJ , IN JJR NN NNS , IN JJ JJ NNS IN DT NN , IN NN CC NN . DT NNP CC NNP NNP VBD PRP IN DT NN NN IN CD . NNS VBP VBN TO VB JJ NN IN JJ NNS IN RB VBG NN . PRP VBP TO VB JJ NNS , VB NN NNS CC NN VBG . PRP MD VB NN IN JJ NN NNS , IN VBN IN NNP NNP NNS IN DT NNP NN IN NNP NNP . DT NNS VBP IN , IN NN , PRP MD RB VB VBN TO VB NN NNS RB IN PRP VBP . 
DT JJ JJ NN WP VBD VBG NNS IN DT RB JJ NN NN NN VBD VBN NN , CD NNS IN JJ NNS VBG PRP$ NN VBD DT NN CC VBN NNS IN PRP$ NN RB , DT NNP IN DT NNP . DT NN , NNP NNP , VBD IN DT NN VBN JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP TO VB VBN IN JJ NN , VBN IN NN IN JJ NN , VBD DT NNS IN DT NNS IN JJ NN NN . PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN CD VBD IN VBD DT NN NN , CC PRP$ JJ NNS VBD DT NN IN NN NNS , WP VBD VBG IN WRB TO VB DT NN IN DT RB JJR NN IN NNS . CC IN DT NN NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP , NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP , VBD DT NN VBD IN PRP VBD VBN DT NNS IN PRP$ NN CC VBD NNS , DT NN CC , RBS RB , PRP$ NNS . 
IN DT VBD , PRP VBD , DT NN MD VB DT NN IN NNS VBG JJ JJ . CC DT NN WRB JJ DT NN , PRP VBD , RB EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNS DT NNS MD VB VBN . DT JJ NN VBD IN DT NN NNS VBD VBN TO VB IN , CC RB JJ , DT NNS POS NNS , VBG PRP JJ TO VB NN NN IN NN , NNS VBD . CC MD VB PRP IN PRP VBP JJ VBP NNS CC PRP MD VB PRP IN PRP MD VB IN PRP VBP VBN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP IN DT NNP . NNP , NNS VBD , IN DT JJ NNS IN JJ NNS , WRB MD PRP VB VBD IN NNS NN VBP VBG NN RB . NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN EX VBD DT NN IN NNS WP$ NNS VBD IN JJ NN . CC , PRP VBD , DT NN NNS VBD VBN TO VB JJ NN IN NN NN . 
NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN NNP DT JJ NNS RB , WRB NN NN VBD IN NN . DT JJ CC JJ NNS IN VBG DT JJ NN VBD JJ NNS , PRP$ NN VBD . NNP NNP NNP POS NN RB VBD VBG NN NN NNS CC NN NNS IN NNS , NNS CC NNS . '' JJ NNS , DT JJ NN VBZ DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP . PRP VBZ DT NN IN VBG IN JJ NNS CC NNS WDT VBZ DT RB JJR NN . '' NNP VBD DT CD NN NN IN DT NN IN NNS VBG IN NNS TO JJ NN NNS IN DT JJ CD NNS . NNS VBP DT IN DT NNS TO DT NN IN NN IN NN . IN DT JJ , NN VBZ RB VBN NN IN DT NN CC DT JJ NN VBN IN NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNP NNPS IN NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NNP NNP . 
WP VBD NNS TO VB JJ JJ NNS , RB IN VBG NNS . DT NNS IN NNP NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN IN JJ NN , IN PRP$ NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN . NNPS VBD DT NN IN NN IN NN , VBG NN TO VB DT JJ NN NN . NNP NNS RB VBD JJ CC JJ NN CC VBD JJ NN NNS . IN DT VBG VBD , '' NN TO VB VBZ DT NN TO VB . '' DT NN VBD , PRP VBD RB JJ WP VBD VBG VBN . CC RB VBD DT NN IN NN NNS WP VBD NNS IN DT CD POS . DT VBD IN PRP$ NNS IN IN JJ CC JJ NNS VBG PRP$ NNS . NNS VBD PRP$ JJ NNS . WP VBD PRP VBD NN IN PRP$ JJ NN VBD VBN VBN IN DT NN CC VBN '' RB . NNP IN DT NNS VBZ NNP NNP , VBN IN CD IN DT NN . IN RB VBN TO VB DT NN , NNS RB VBD PRP NNS CC VBD PRP$ NNS TO VB PRP IN DT NN . PRP VBD IN NN CC NN IN NNS IN VBG JJ . 
NN CC JJ NNS WP VBD JJ NNS IN NN CC NN IN IN JJS CD NNS VBD RB VBN IN NNP POS NN , VBG TO DT JJ NN IN NNS IN DT NNP . PRP$ NN IN VBG NNP POS NN VBD JJ IN IN NNS WP VBD RB VB DT NNS . DT NN , VBN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBZ NN IN VBG NNP POS CC VBZ JJ IN VBG JJ , NNS VBD . PRP VBD IN DT NNS VBD RB VB IN NNS MD VB PRP IN NNS , WDT MD VB JJ NN NNS , TO VB NNP POS . DT NNS , VBN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD DT NN CD CC JJR IN DT NN IN NNP , NNP , TO VB IN PRP$ NN . IN CD WP VBD VBN , CD VBD CC VBD JJ . NN VBD NNP POS . CC IN DT NN IN DT NN , CD VBD VBN PRP . 
JJ NN VBZ RB VBG IN EX VBZ JJ NN IN DT NNP NNS , CC RB IN EX VBZ DT NN IN PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN , VBG IN DT VBD RB IN IN DT NN JJ NNS VBD VBN VBN CC VBN RP . IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB , VB CD CC CD NNS TO VB TO DT NNS , '' PRP VBP TO VB PRP VBP VBG JJR NN IN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBZ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP CC NNP CC DT NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP NNP . PRP VBD PRP VBD RB VBN IN EX VBD JJ JJ NN NNS IN DT NN NNS VBN TO VB NN . JJ NNS WP VBD IN VBG DT NN POS NNS VBD IN DT JJ NN TO VB DT NN NN IN JJR IN CD VBD RB RB JJ IN PRP MD VB . CC , PRP VBD , PRP VBZ RB DT JJR NN . 
JJ NNS VBD CD NNS VBN TO NNP . POS IN NN , CC VBD IN CD IN PRP VBD DT NN . NN IN DT JJ NN IN CD NNS WP$ NNS VBD RB VBN NNP . POS VBD DT NN . DT NNS VBD VBN VBG JJ NNS , VBG NNP , NNP , NNP CC NNP . DT NN RB VBZ RB VB NN CC VBZ TO VB DT JJ JJ NNS , DT NNS VBD . CC , PRP VBD , '' JJ NNS IN IN JJ NN TO NNP . POS VBP RB VBN VBN RB . '' DT NNS VBD IN PRP$ NN NN VBD JJ CC IN PRP VBD IN NNS TO VB PRP$ JJ NN IN DT NNS . CC VBG DT NN RB VBZ NNS IN NN CC NN , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN JJ NN IN NNP , WP VBD RB VBN IN DT NN . CD NN IN NN IN NN VBZ JJ NNS TO DT NN , PRP VBD . 
VBG NNS NN IN NNS IN WP MD VB VBN , WP MD VB VBN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC JJ NNS WP VBP JJ IN VBG IN DT NN IN JJ NNS . PRP MD VB PRP IN DT NN NN . '' CC , IN NNP NNP POS NN , DT JJ NN . NNP NNP , CD , VBD VBN VBN IN CD NNS WRB PRP VBD DT NN NN , JJ NN CC DT NN IN JJ , NNS WDT VBD PRP IN DT NN CD TO DT NN CD . PRP CC DT NNS VBD TO VB DT JJ NN CC VBD PRP VBZ NNP NNP . '' VBZ CD RB VBD IN DT NN , WRB PRP VBP DT RB JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN VBD JJ NN TO DT NN . DT JJS NN VBD , PRP VBD VBN IN . PRP VBD DT JJ , JJ NN . '' 
DT NN POS VBG NN MD RB VB NNS WDT VBP DT JJ NN IN DT WP VBP NNP NNP POS JJ NN CC DT WP VBP PRP IN DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NN . CC PRP$ NN RB VBZ JJR NNS IN DT NN , WDT VBZ CD NNS IN DT JJ , JJ NN TO VB DT VBG NN IN NNP NNP IN VBG TO NNP IN JJ JJ NN . CC NN POS NN IN DT NN VBZ VBN VBN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN POS NN , IN DT NN . NNP IN DT NN POS NN VBZ VBN , PRP VBD , CC DT NN WP NNP NNP VBZ IN PRP$ NN VBZ PRP MD RB RBR VB PRP$ NNS TO DT NN , WDT VBZ IN CD NNS DT NN . CC NNP IN NNP POS NNS VBD CD NN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD IN PRP$ JJ NNS . CC IN DT NN VBD JJ , PRP VBD , DT NN VBD PRP$ JJ NN IN NNP NNP POS JJ NN CC VBD IN DT NNS IN PRP VBD VBN . CD NN IN PRP CC DT NN VBZ IN PRP VBD PRP PRP$ NN IN NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
PDT DT JJ NN MD VB DT NN TO NN NNS , NNP NNP VBD . VB DT NN , EX MD VB DT NN JJR NN , '' PRP VBD . CC EX VBZ DT JJ NN VBD TO VB DT NNS . RB DT JJ NN IN DT NN VBZ RB JJ NN . '' CC DT NN , WDT CC DT NNP CC NNP NN VBZ RB IN NN , MD VB IN DT JJS NN NNS : JJ NNS . EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS WDT MD VB RB JJ WDT MD VB VBG IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CD NNS RB , PRP RB MD VB VBN IN NN NN VBZ WRB PRP VBZ . DT NN IN DT NN NN NN VBZ VBG TO VB $ CD CD IN CD NNS MD IN DT NNS VB JJ . '' NNP NNP VBD DT NN IN NN NNS , NNS TO DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP NN . CC NN VBZ WRB NNS VBP IN IN NNS IN $ CD NN NNS WP RB VBP VBG , NNP MD VB TO VB DT NN , '' PRP VBD . CC VBG DT NN RBR JJ IN VBG NNS MD VB PRP$ NN TO RB JJ IN $ CD CD IN CD NN . DT NNP NN IN $ CD CD IN CD NNS , PRP VBD , VBD CD IN DT NN POS JJ IN DT NN . '' 
NNS VBP DT NN NNS CC NN MD VB VBN IN VBN NNS VBP VBN RB , WRB DT NN NNS VBP RB VBN IN JJ . NNS VBG IN JJ NNS MD VB VBN RB . CC DT JJS NN VBZ TO VB NNS WDT VBD JJR IN CD NN . DT NN IN NN VBZ VBN IN DT NN IN NNS WDT VBP DT JJ NN NN NN . DT VBP NNP POS NNP , VBD JJ NN IN NN NN , CC NNP NNP POS NNP , VBD IN NNP IN JJ NN . DT NN VBZ IN DT NN IN DT NN . WRB DT JJ NN NN VBZ TO PRP , PRP VBZ IN DT NN VBG IN DT NN . PRP VBZ RP DT NN IN NNS IN DT NN WDT VBZ TO VB NN CC NN . DT NN VBZ RB RBR JJ IN DT NN NNS IN IN JJ NNS , IN PRP VBD VBN IN VBG DT NN MD VB DT JJ NN IN NN NNS . CC PRP VBZ IN VBN VBN IN EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN NNS IN DT NN POS NN NNS CC NN TO DT NN , VBG IN DT NN IN NNS POS NN VBD VBN . 
DT JJ NNS IN NNP VBP IN VBG NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP . DT VBZ RB WRB DT NN VBZ DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN : NN VBD IN JJ NNS . JJS IN DT NNS VBP JJ JJ NN NN CC NNS , IN WDT NNS VBD RB JJ JJ CC VBG JJ NN IN NNS WP VBP VBN NNS IN NN . NNS VBP RB JJ TO VB PRP PRP$ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN DT NN NN , DT NN VBZ VBN TO DT JJ NN NN , RB VBN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN TO NNP POS NN . EX , DT NN VBZ VBN VBG WP VBZ WRB NN VBZ JJ IN DT IN CD JJ NNS IN NNP CC NN : NNP POS NN CC IN NNP POS JJR NN IN NNS . IN DT NN IN NNP NN , JJ NNS RB VBP IN JJ NN NN . CC NNP NNP VBD IN DT IN DT NNS VBP VBN VBN RB VBG JJ NNS : IN IN VBG PRP VB , VBG PRP$ NN TO VB , VBG PRP$ NN NN CC VBG PRP TO VB RP RBR . 
DT NNP . VBZ IN CD TO CD NN IN DT NNS WP VBP NN NNS VBN IN JJ JJ NNS IN DT NN NN JJ JJ NNS . IN CD CD NNPS JJ VB JJ NN NNS IN NN , VBG TO NN VBN IN NNP , CC IN CD NN NN DT NN IN IN NN NNS . DT NNP , RB , RB VBZ NNP CC NNP TO VB VBG NNS VBG IN NNP CC NNP MD VB JJ NNS . DT NNS NN WRB RB JJ JJ NNS VBP VBN JJ NNS CC VB PRP VBZ RB RB VBN WRB JJ NNS MD VB DT NNS . DT NNP POS MD RB VB DT JJ NN NNS , VBG JJ NN CC NN . CC , DT NNS VBP DT NNS IN DT JJ NNS MD VB VBN VBN . NNP NNP NNP NNP CC NNP NNP NNP , WP VBP VBN IN NNS TO DT NNS , VBD IN IN DT NNS VBD VB TO VB DT NN IN NNS IN DT NNS , PRP VBD RB VBN JJ TO VB DT NNS TO DT NNS IN NN . PRP RB VBD IN DT NN IN NNP CD POS MD RB VB VBN TO NNS WP VBP DT JJR NN IN NNS IN VBG DT JJ NN . CC VBZ JJ IN PDT DT NN VBZ VBN , '' DT CD NNS VBD IN DT NN RB JJ NN IN DT NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP . 
IN NNS IN DT NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NNP NN , VBD IN DT NN TO DT NN IN DT NN IN PRP VBD VBG IN NN , '' NNS VBP JJ CC NN VBP JJ . '' IN JJ NN NNS IN NNP VBP RB JJ , DT NNS VBD , DT NN VBD RB JJ . NNP NNP VBD IN NNS IN DT JJ NNS VBD JJ CC VBD PRP$ VBD RB . CC IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NN , PRP VBD , '' VBP VBN VBN IN WP PRP VBP VBN . '' PRP VBD PRP VBD VBN RBR NN IN NNS VBN RB IN JJ NNS WDT VBD , IN NN , NN CC JJ NN . VBG DT JJ NN IN DT NN , NNP NNP NN NNP , DT NN NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNPS CC NNP , VBD IN CD JJ NN NNS IN JJ NNS IN DT CD NN IN DT NN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . PRP VBD VBN JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC NNP . '' 
RB , DT NNS IN NNS POS NN IN NN TO PRP$ NN VBP VBN VBN IN NNS VBN TO VB NN IN NNS . DT CD JJ NN IN NN NN VBD IN NNS , WP VBP IN DT NN IN VBG NNS RB IN RB IN PRP VBP JJ NNS , VBD JJ DT NN IN JJ NNS IN NNS VBD . JJ NNS VBP VBN IN IN JJ NNS IN NNS MD VB IN NNP , JJ NNS VBP RBR JJ TO VB NN NN . NNS VBP IN NN MD VB VBN IN WRB JJ VBZ VBP IN NNS , CC IN NNS MD RB VB VBN TO VB DT JJ NNS IN NNS VBP RB VB JJR NN IN PRP . JJ NNS VBP DT NNS VBP VBN IN WRB NNS VBP VBN . CC VBP VBN NNS IN DT NN PRP VBP VBZ IN NNS VBP TO VB IN PRP$ JJ CD NNS , '' POS PRP VBP DT NN , VB PRP IN PRP , '' VBZ DT NN , VBP CD IN DT NN , '' '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP IN NNP , NNP , VBD IN NNP NNP NNP . CD IN WDT VBZ , VBP RB VB , VBP RB VB IN NN CC VB DT NN IN PRP . '' '' 
IN DT JJ CC RB JJ NN TO VB CD IN DT NN POS RBS JJ NNS IN DT NN , NNS CC NN NNS VBP VBG TO VB DT NNP NN CC NN PRP TO VB NN . DT NNS VBP PRP VBP VBN DT JJ NN NN IN PRP$ NN TO VB NN , IN VBG JJ PRP$ NN TO VB JJ NNS . PDT DT JJ NN , PRP VBP , MD VB VBN TO VB NNS IN JJ NNS IN NN NN . JJ NN NNS CC NN NNS VBP TO VB JJ NNS VBG DT VBN NNP . NNS TO VB NNS IN PRP VBP MD VB VBN TO VB NNS JJ IN NN CC NN . IN JJS CD NN MD RB VB VBN TO VB DT JJ NNP , DT NN WDT VBZ NNP , TO VB NNP PRP . '' MD VB JJ TO VB NNP IN DT NNP NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNPS RB , WP VBZ VBN DT NN TO VB NNP . IN NN NN . CC PRP VBD , EX VBZ DT VBG IN NN NNS NN . '' 
RB IN DT NNP . NN VBD VBN IN NNP POS JJ NNS , DT NN VBD DT NNS . IN DT NN , DT NN IN DT NNP . NN NN , VBN IN DT NN POS NN , VBD EX VBD DT NN IN JJ NNS VBN IN DT NN . CC DT NN NN , IN DT NN POS NNS , VBD IN EX VBD DT JJ NN TO DT NNS . IN NNS IN DT NN NN , NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD VBN IN NNP , NNP NNP CC NNP RB RB IN JJ NNS . DT CD NNS VBP NNS NNS WDT MD VB IN NNP . CC NNP NNP VBD PRP VBD DT NN IN PRP$ NN NNS CC RB VBD IN PRP VB VBN TO NN . IN DT NN NN , DT NNP . VBD PRP$ NNS VBD RB JJ IN DT NNS IN DT NNP JJ NNS , DT IN NN TO NN CC NN , CC RB VB DT NN IN JJ NN IN NN NN NN IN DT NNS , RB DT VBN IN JJ , JJ NN . '' IN NNS VBZ DT JJ NN , NNS VBD TO VB PRP VBP RB VBN JJ NN . 
'' VBZ RB DT JJ NN , '' '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NN NN NN . '' VBZ RB DT JJ CC JJ NN , CC DT NN IN PRP VBZ RB IN JJ . '' CC , NNP NNP VBD , EX VBZ JJ RB JJ NN '' WDT NNS WP VBP PRP$ NN IN CD NN IN DT JJR NN IN JJ NN . EX VBZ JJ NN IN NNP NN VBZ NN NN : PRP VBZ RB RB RB IN DT NN , '' PRP VBD . CC DT NN WRB PRP JJR NNP : IN NNS , DT NN CC JJ , NN CC NN CC JJ NNS : DT NN IN VBG JJ NN VBZ JJ TO DT NN IN NNP VBG . '' IN PRP VBP DT JJ NN WDT MD VB DT NNP NN . '' PRP VBD . WP MD VB JJ . '' JJ NNS VBP VBN IN NN NN VBZ JJ CC DT JJ NNS VBP RBR JJ IN NNS IN JJ NN IN JJR NNS , DT NN VBZ . CC NNS VBP NNS JJ IN RB VBG NN , NNP NNP VBD : PRP VBP VBG CC JJ NNS , CC DT JJ NN MD VB RBR JJ IN DT NNP NN VBN IN DT NN . 
DT JJS NN : $ CD CD IN CD JJ JJ NN IN NNP : VBZ VBN TO VB VB DT JJ NN IN NN , WDT VBZ NNS IN DT NNP NNPS CC IN DT NN . DT NN MD VB $ CD TO DT NNP NN IN NNP , NNP , WDT RB VBN IN VBG NN CC JJ NNS IN NNS IN NN . DT NN MD VB DT NN IN WRB NNP MD VB JJ JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN NN NN . IN $ CD VBZ RB VBN VBN TO VBG VB JJ NN NNS JJ TO VB IN JJ JJ NNS IN JJ NNS . DT NN RB VBZ TO VB IN JJS CD JJ JJ NNS NNS RB DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNPS TO VB JJ NN NNS . IN NNP , DT NN VBZ VBN $ CD TO VB DT JJ NNP NNP NNP VB DT JJ NN IN IN NNS MD VB RB TO NNS IN DT JJ NNS . 
CD NN VBZ IN NN IN NNP NNP POS NN VBD NNP NNS . CC RB , NNS VBP , IN DT NN NN IN NNS WP VBD RB VB NNS , PRP VBP JJ NN : NNP VBG , IN DT NN , VBP NNS . RB , PRP VBZ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNP WP VBD DT NN WDT VBD JJ TO NNP NNP POS CC JJR . NNP NNP VBD , '' VBZ NN IN IN PRP VBP DT NN RBR PRP MD VB NNS . '' CC NNP NN VBZ RB VBN IN RB RB , '' PRP VBD . NNP NNS VBP RB VBN IN EX VBP NNS IN DT NNS : CC NN NNS VBP DT NN : IN VBP VBG IN PRP$ JJ , CC DT VBP RB RB IN PRP RB VBP NNS . NNP , DT NN , WRB JJ IN DT NNS VBD TO VB VBN VBD RB IN NN . CC WRB RB MD NNS VB NNS WDT MD VB VBG NN IN DT NN , WDT VBZ JJ IN PRP , WRB PRP$ NN VBD RB JJ . 
DT RBS JJ NN RB VBN IN DT NN IN NN NN NNS VBZ VBN IN PRP VBP RB VB DT NNS IN NN NNS WDT VBP VBN DT NN IN NNS CC JJ NNS VBG DT $ CD CD IN DT NNS . DT NN MD VB IN JJS JJ NN IN JJ CC NN IN JJR IN CD CD JJ NNS WP RB VBP JJ NNS IN PRP$ NNS CC MD VB VBN IN PRP VBD IN JJ NN . CC PRP VBZ RB DT JJ NN , CC PRP MD VB JJ NN TO DT NNS WDT VBP VBN RP NNS IN NNS TO NNS WP$ NNS VBP , IN DT NN VBZ JJ , JJ TO DT NNS . DT JJ NN : IN DT NN IN NNS VBN IN DT NNP IN NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS , IN DT NN IN NNP : VBZ RB VB IN NNS VBP JJ IN DT NN . DT NN VBD PRP MD VB JJ NNS IN DT NN PRP WRB DT NN VBZ , CC DT NN IN PRP NNS , CC NN RB . DT VBZ IN RB JJ NN , '' DT NNS VBD , DT NN IN NNS CC JJ NNS VBP TO VB . IN DT JJ NNS VBP RB JJ , PRP VBP JJ NN CC NN IN JJ NNS CC RB VB NN TO VB CC VB DT NNS . 
RB WRB PRP VBD VBN TO VB JJ NNS MD VB VBG PRP$ NN IN VBG DT JJ NN NN , PRP VBP VBN IN DT NN IN JJ NN . DT JJ NN VBN JJ NN NNS IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ DT NN IN NN RB VBZ VBG IN NN . DT MD VB DT JJ NN IN NN IN NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN . VBG DT NNS IN DT NN , VBN IN NN , MD VB PRP VB RP DT NNS IN VBG : CC VBP PRP RB JJ TO NN . DT VBZ RB VB IN DT JJ NN . IN NN , NN RB VBD IN VBG NN MD VB JJ . NNP NNP VBZ VBN TO VB NNS IN JJ NN . DT JJ VBG NN IN JJ NN : JJ NN : VBZ DT NN IN NNS WDT VBP DT NN TO VB RB . PRP VBZ RB VB NNS WDT MD VB NN IN DT JJ NNS VBP IN . 
DT NN , JJ NN VBN IN , VBG PRP WRB PRP VBD RP IN PRP$ JJ NN . DT JJS NN VBD NN , PRP VBD , IN PRP VBD RB VB IN DT NN . CC PRP RB VBD RBR . RB PRP VBD IN VBG NNS VBP PRP MD VB WRB PRP VBP JJ , RB PRP VBD VBG RB , VBG DT NN NNP NNP NNP VBZ : VBG CD NN NN CC NN IN CC IN NN . PRP VBP DT JJR CC DT NN , CC IN JJS PRP MD VB DT JJ NN : IN RB CD TO CD NNS : IN PRP$ JJ NN . CC PRP VBG TO DT NNS IN NNP NNP NNP : IN DT NN VBZ DT JJR WRB PRP VBP IN WRB PRP VBP , VBG VBZ RB VBG . PRP$ NN VBZ RB RB JJ WRB PRP VBP . IN RB , PRP VBP VBN CD NNS . PRP VBD DT JJ NN WDT VBZ JJ NN IN NN PRP RB VBP VBN RB . CC PRP VBP VBN DT NN TO VB DT NN TO VB RP WP VBZ JJ IN PRP$ NN . 
JJ NN VBD JJ , CC RB IN JJS , VBD IN NN CC RB NN . RB NN WP VBD IN NNP VBD DT JJ NN TO JJ NN . CC IN EX VBD DT , IN DT JJ NNP NNP , WP VBD IN NNP MD VB RB VBG '' TO VB NNP JJR NN IN PRP VBG RP IN DT JJ NN , '' CC DT JJ NN NNP NNP , WP VBD PRP MD RB VB TO VB PRP CD CC CD NNS , '' JJS NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN IN VBG JJ NNS . IN DT NN VBN PRP CC VBD DT NN , PRP MD VB PRP$ JJ NN POS JJ NN . IN PRP VBD DT NN , PRP MD RB VB PRP IN DT NN WP RB VBD PRP$ NN . MD DT NN TO NN , RB VB . CC WRB MD DT JJ NN VBP RP PRP$ NN RB , VBG PRP VBD DT NN IN DT NN , RB VBN NN . MD RB PRP VB VBG TO VB RB JJ IN JJ DT JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ NN : WP VBZ PRP MD VB RB TO VB , WP NN RB . WP NN IN NN MD VB NN IN PRP . WP JJ NN MD PRP VB TO VB IN PRP$ NNS CC VBP JJ '' NNS IN NN . MD VB , IN PRP$ NN NNS , VBP DT NN IN JJ NN , IN DT IN PRP$ NNS . MD VB RB RB VB VBN CC VBN . WP MD PRP VB IN PRP IN PRP VBD IN . 
NNP NNS MD VB VBN IN NNP NNP NN IN NNP , DT JJ NNP NN VBG VBN IN NNP . VBG TO DT NN IN DT NN POS NNP NN , EX VBD DT NN IN JJ NN NNS IN DT NNS WP VBD NNP CC DT VBG NN , DT JJR NN . DT NN VBD CD NNS IN NN WP VBD VBN DT NN IN DT NN IN IN CD NNS . DT NNP . VBZ VBN TO VB IN TO VB NNP IN DT NN IN DT NN . JJ NNS VBP PRP TO VB NN IN NNS IN JJ NN VBZ JJ . IN DT NNP NN , DT JJR NN IN NN NNS CC NNS VBD RB VBN IN NNS VBD DT NN IN CD NNS . NNP NN 
NNP VBD TO VB RB VBN JJ NN , WDT VBD RB DT JJ NN . PRP VBZ NN WDT VBZ RB VBN VBN IN NNS . IN PRP VBP PRP WP RB VBZ DT NN RB , PRP MD VB IN DT NNS IN DT NNP NN VBP VBN PRP RBR RB IN DT NNP NN . DT NN IN JJ NN VBD JJ IN NNP POS JJS JJ NNS IN VBG IN DT NN . NNP . NNP PRP RB JJ IN NNP NNP IN PRP VBD DT NN IN NNS IN JJ NN NN NN . NN PRP MD VB TO VB PRP PRP VBD NN . PRP VBD RB . WRB PRP$ NNS VBD VBN , PRP VBP PRP RB . PRP VBD VBN IN DT NN CC DT NN IN WDT PRP MD VB DT JJ NN . PRP VBD RB VBN DT NNS PRP . CC PRP VBD RB VB WRB JJ PRP MD VB IN NNS . PRP VBD NNP NNP CC PRP$ NNS JJ NNS . PRP VBD RB VB RB , RB CC JJ CC NN IN DT . 
CD VBP DT JJ TO VB DT VBZ DT JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . PRP MD RB VB VBG TO NN WP MD VB , FW , PRP MD VB PRP DT NN CC PRP VBP DT CD NNS IN NN IN PRP VBP VBG TO VB DT . '' '' 
CD NN WP VBZ DT NN , PRP NN IN NN TO VB NNS CC VB , FW , DT VBZ RB PRP$ JJ NN , '' '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . '' VBP VBG IN VBG NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN CC NN IN DT NNP IN NNP . '' VBP VBG IN VBG NN . '' DT NNP . NNS IN IN DT NNP NNPS RB JJR IN CD NNS DT NN VBP VBN IN IN NN CC PRP$ NNS , CC IN CD NN . JJ IN DT RBS JJ NNS VBP IN NNS JJR IN CD : DT NN VBD RBR JJ TO VB IN VBG JJ NN CC IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN WDT MD VB DT NN IN VBG RP DT JJR RB JJ NN IN PRP VBZ IN JJR NNS . NNPS VBP IN IN RB DT JJS NN TO VB JJ CC JJ NNS , CC DT WP VBP NNS , NN CC JJ JJ NN CC NN NN , VBZ TO VB RB RB PRP CC RB PRP$ NNS CC NNS WP VBP IN JJ NN IN PRP . 
RB DT NN VBD VBN JJ NNS IN CD NNS IN VBG VBD WP VBD VBN TO DT NNS . VBG DT NNS PRP VBD VBN , DT NN VBD DT NN RB IN CD NNS . JJ NNS IN JJ NNS VBP VBN VBN IN NNP CC DT NNP NNPS IN NNP CC IN NNS IN NNP VBG IN NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBG DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP . IN CD NN , NNP NNP CC NNS VBN NN NNS WDT VBD IN JJ NNS IN NN , DT NN NN NN . DT NN VBZ RB VBN IN NN NN TO VB DT NN , VBN IN NN CC NN . CC IN JJ NNS VBP , DT NN RB VBZ PRP IN VBG NNS CC NN IN VBG . IN PRP MD VB DT IN DT NNS WDT VBP DT JJR NN PRP MD VB RB IN DT NN PRP VBP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN NN IN NNP CC JJ NN IN DT NN , WDT VBD VBN IN NN IN NNP . 
DT NNS VBP VBD TO VB VBN VBN IN NNS IN CD NNS , CC VBP NNS NNP NNP VBD TO VB CC VB PRP RB CC TO VB RP RB IN PRP$ NNS . CD IN DT NNS VBD IN DT NN , VBG DT NNS CC VBG NN IN PRP$ NNS VBD VBN VBN IN PRP$ NN . DT VBD NNP NNP VBD VBN PRP RB TO NN CC VBD VBN PRP$ NNS IN JJ NNS IN VBG . CD IN DT NNS , NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , CD , VBD DT NN VBD VBN PRP$ JJ NN , JJ NNS , NN NNS CC JJ NNS . '' RB VBD PRP RP , IN JJ NNS IN WP PRP VBD VBG TO VB , VBG JJ NNS , JJ NNS CC NNS IN NNS , VBG JJ NN : IN PRP RB VBD TO PRP$ JJ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP VBN PRP$ NNS CC VB RB DT NN IN NNP NNP VBZ DT NN IN JJ NNP . '' 
IN DT JJ NNS , EX MD VB DT NN IN NNS IN NN NNS CC JJ JJ NNS , NNS WDT VBP VBN TO JJ NNS CC DT VBP IN JJ NNS IN NNS IN DT RBS JJ , JJ NNS . IN NN NN , WP VBZ VBZ TO VB DT NN POS NN , RB DT NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NN . CC IN DT NNS , DT JJ NN VBZ TO VB DT JJ NN IN NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN , RB DT NN DT JJ NN NNS . NN VBZ IN JJ NNS VBP RB DT JJ NN . NNP VBP TO VB CC VB PRP$ NNS . CC IN DT NN NN , NNS VBP DT NN IN VBG JJ TO NN CC MD VB RBR JJ TO VB NN , JJ NN . DT VBD DT JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ JJ JJ NN NN IN NNP , NNP , WP$ NN IN WRB TO VB IN NN NN VBD IN PRP$ JJ NN . PRP$ NN , DT NN , VBD VBN IN DT NNP IN NNP CC , PRP VBD , VBD NN VBD RB JJ , WDT VBD WRB PRP VBD . '' 
NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP , NNP NNP PRP RB VBN IN IN DT NNP . NN , PRP MD RB VB RB RB RB . PRP VBD VBN IN JJ NN CD NNS RB , RB NN IN PRP$ JJ NN , WRB PRP VBD IN IN DT JJ NN . PRP$ NNP . NN VBD CD . PRP VBD DT NN , CC PRP VBD RB CD PRP VBD TO VB DT JJ NN IN PRP VBD JJ , PRP$ NN VBD VBG RB , CC PRP VBD PRP$ JJS NN IN NN . RB RB IN PRP VBP JJ PRP VBP CD NN VBN . PRP VBD DT NN WRB PRP VBD RB JJ : PRP VBD VBN TO DT NN . CC PRP VBP RB JJ TO VB PRP IN PRP VBP VBD DT NN NNS . VBG NNS . PRP VBP JJ TO VB JJ IN . NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP NNP NNP PRP VBP VBG IN PRP$ NNS VBP DT NNP . NN WRB PRP VBP IN CD NNS JJ , IN PRP VBP DT NN NN . RB PRP VBZ JJR . PRP VBZ RB DT JJ NN PRP VBP VBN . CC IN PRP VBP PRP IN DT JJ NN CC NN VBZ VBG IN RB JJ NNS , CC RB PRP$ NNP . NNS , PRP VBZ PRP$ CD NN TO VB IN DT NN MD VB . 
RB , NNP NNP VBD , VBD DT VBN JJ NN , DT NN PRP VBD TO DT NN POS NN , DT JJR DT NN '' IN NN NNS . NNP PRP$ NN TO DT NN NN , NNP NNP VBD DT JJ NN IN NN NN VBZ , RB VBG IN DT NNS IN JJ NNS CC DT NN IN JJ NNS . IN NNP NNP , PRP VBD DT NN IN NN , DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NN , CC DT NN NN VBN IN NNP POS NN . JJ NNS RBR VBD DT NN TO VB JJ JJ NNS IN WRB NNS VBP , IN NNS CC NNS RB . NNP NNP RB VBD IN DT NN IN DT NN , NN , CC PRP$ NN TO DT NN NN IN DT NN RB VBN IN NN NNS . PRP VBD PRP$ JJR NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS IN NNS , NN NN CC NN IN DT NN . '' IN DT NN , PRP VBD VBG NNS IN NN NNS , RB IN NN NN , JJ IN WDT VBP JJ . 
IN NNP CD IN NNP CD , CD NNS , NNS CC NNS POS NNS IN CD JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNPS VBD CD NNS VBD CD TO CD WP VBD IN PRP$ NNS . DT NNS , PRP VBD , VBD VBG NN IN DT NN IN NNS VBD VBD JJ . NNP NNS VBD VBG NNS IN DT JJ NN IN CD CC JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN CD . IN JJ NNS , DT JJ NNS VBD CD NNS IN NNS CC CD NNS IN JJ NN . IN JJR NN NNS IN DT NN IN NN , DT JJR NN IN DT JJ NN NN VBD RB VBN RB , TO NN CD IN JJ NNS CC NN CD IN JJ NNS . JJ NNS VBD DT NNS IN NN NN , VBN IN JJ NNS IN VBG NNS IN JJ NNS , VBD NNS IN JJ NN IN NN CD IN NNS CC NNS . CC DT JJ NN IN NN IN NNP NNP POS NN VBD IN DT JJ IN DT NN VBD . NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP WP$ NN VBZ IN JJ NN , VBD RB VBN IN DT NNS . 
DT JJ NN MD RB VB DT JJ NN TO NNP NN , WDT VBZ IN VBG JJ NNS IN DT NN WDT MD VB IN PRP$ NN TO VBG JJ . PRP VBZ RB IN NNS MD RB RB VB VBG IN PRP VBD VBN VBN . DT NN , VBD RB IN NNS CC NNS CD TO CD NNS JJ , VBZ RB VB IN DT NNS IN NNP WDT NN NN . IN DT JJ NN VBZ JJ , DT NNP NN MD VB PRP RB CD NN TO CD NN IN DT NN . NNP NN VBZ JJ RB IN PRP VBZ VBN RB : DT NN MD VB CD NNS TO VB IN DT NN , IN DT JJ NN MD RB VB PRP IN NN . IN JJR NNS VBP DT NNP NN , RB , DT NN IN NNS MD VB , VBG DT NNP NN RBR JJ IN NN NN VBN . CC IN JJR NNS TO VB , VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC NN IN NNP NNP , DT NNS WP VBP NNP NNS MD VB PRP$ NN : CC PRP$ NN . 
DT NN VBZ VBG IN JJ NNS , DT RB JJ NN VBN IN NN IN DT JJ NN . CC NNP NNP VBD DT NN MD RB VB DT NN NNS VBP NNS WDT VBP TO VB JJR JJ NNS IN NNS , NN , NN CC NN . DT NNS IN JJ NN MD VB VBN IN DT JJ NNP NNS IN VBG NNP , NNP CC NNP NNP IN JJ NN NNS . CC RB RB , NNP NNP VBD , NNS IN DT NNS VBP VBN NNS TO VB . PRP VBZ RB JJ CC JJ IN PRP MD VB VBG RB , '' PRP VBD . PRP VBZ JJ . DT JJ NNP NNP NNS PRP VBP VBG IN VBP DT NNPS . '' DT NN VBZ NNS . IN DT JJ NN DT VBN NNP NNP VBD IN NNP NNP POS NN . PRP VBD JJ IN JJ NNS IN DT VBG IN NNP IN NNP VBD VBN PRP VB CD NNS TO VB IN CC RB VBD PRP TO VB RP PRP$ NN TO VB JJ PRP VBD RB VBN IN NNS . 
NN VBZ RB JJ CC VBZ RP IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NN IN PRP VBZ JJ TO VB NN WP VBZ NN JJ , '' VBD NNP NNP , WP VBD DT NN POS NN NN IN JJ NNS IN NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP VBZ RB DT NN TO NNS VBG IN DT NNP . DT JJ MD RB VB VBD IN NNP NNP , WP VBD IN NNP NNP NNP CC DT JJ NNP NNP CC VBD NN NNS IN VBG DT NN IN NN NN NNS CC VBG TO VB NN IN DT NN . NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN IN JJ NN NNS IN NNP , WDT DT NNP . VBD TO VB JJR NN IN PRP VBD TO VB PRP$ NN NN NNS TO DT NN , VBD NNP NNP VBD RB JJ , JJ , CC VBD RB VB TO VB NN IN NN IN VBN TO DT NN . '' NNP NNP MD RB VB WRB PRP$ NN NN VBN IN NNP NNP POS , CC PRP VBD VB PRP$ NNS IN NN NNS CC NNS . CD VBD PRP RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . 
DT NN NN NN , VBN NN JJ NN , VBZ VBN JJ IN IN DT NN , CC VBD VBN RB RB IN NNS IN NN IN VBG NNS IN JJ JJ NNS . NNS MD VB PRP$ NN TO VB IN PRP VBP DT NN NN IN VBG DT NN IN DT NN POS NN . CC PRP VBZ RB VBN JJ IN DT NN MD RB VB VBN IN NN NN . PRP VBZ JJ TO VB IN DT NN VBZ JJ , IN DT NN CC DT NNP NN , CC NN , IN CD NNS NNS . NN NNS VBP NNS RB VBP IN PRP MD VB NN NN RB TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN . CC JJS NNS VBP PRP VBD . NN MD VB VBN PRP$ NN IN RB IN DT NN PRP VBP IN PRP VBD PDT DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . VB DT VBZ RB DT NN PRP VBP DT TO VB . PRP VBP TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS . '' 
NNP NNP VBZ CD , DT NN PRP$ NN VBD WRB PRP VBD PRP RB NN . VBG RP IN CD IN NNP POS JJS NNS , PRP VBZ VBN DT NN : NN NN VBZ VBN , VBZ IN IN NN , VBZ IN NN CC VBZ DT NN WP IN NN VBZ DT NN NN . CC VBP TO VB DT NN , '' PRP VBD , PRP$ NN RB VBN IN PRP$ NN NN NNS . NNS VBP DT NN , CC PRP VBP VB IN NN PRP . '' PRP VBZ RB VB IN NN , IN PRP VBZ VBG NN . RB CD CC RB VBN , NNP NNP VBZ RB VBD PRP JJ NN IN DT NN , IN DT NN IN NNP , NNP PRP VBZ RB VB IN PRP IN NN IN DT NNS '' WP VBP NN IN NN NN . CC IN PRP VBZ , WP VBZ . '' PRP VBD . NNP NNS IN NNP FW NNP , DT NN IN NNS VBZ VBN RB JJ NN , VBG TO PRP$ JJS NN IN CD . 
IN DT NN DT NNS VBD , PRP$ NN VBD VBN PRP$ JJ NN , VBD DT JJ NNS VBG IN JJ JJ NNS VBN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC VBD DT JJ NN . PRP VBD IN DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN NN WDT VBD DT NNP NN NN , IN DT NN IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP . PRP VBD RB DT NN NN CC DT JJ NNP NN , CC JJS IN PRP$ NNS VBD IN JJ JJ NNS . JJ VBD NNS WP$ NNS PRP VBD . NNS VBD VBN IN JJ NNS . RB JJ IN PRP MD VB , PRP$ NN VBD NNS DT NN IN VBG DT JJ NNS , RB JJR DT NN IN VBG RB MD CD NN VB NNS TO PRP$ NN . DT VBZ RB IN EX VBD DT NNS RB IN DT CD POS , WRB PRP VBD VBG PRP$ JJ NN . PRP VBZ RB IN PRP VBD VBN TO NNP IN DT NN , NNP , DT NN VBD IN PRP$ NN IN NN CC NN : WDT PRP$ NN VBD VBN TO VBG IN DT JJ VBP DT NNP IN PRP$ NN VBD VBN TO VB : CC RB IN NN IN NN . IN CD , NN VBD VBN IN NNP NN . CC PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS VBD NNS IN PRP$ JJ NNS . PRP$ NN VBD VBN IN JJ NNS VBD DT NN . PRP VBD NN TO PRP IN VBN PRP$ RB JJ NN , DT NN TO VB DT NN MD VB VBN TO DT JJ NN CC PRP$ NN , RB TO DT NN NN . 
NNS VBP JJ NNS IN WRB TO VB NNP . IN NN NNS . JJ , IN NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN JJ NN IN NNP , NN IN JJ NN . DT VBG NN , PRP VBZ , VBZ VBG WRB JJ PRP VBZ IN NNS MD VB NN NNS , VBN NN VBN IN PRP$ NNP . CC NNP . NNS , PRP$ NN NN , PRP$ NN NN CC IN PRP VBD CC VBP NNS . NNP NNP VBD IN IN NNS IN JJ NNS , PRP VBD RB JJ TO VB JJ NNP . NNS CC VB JJ NNS . CC , PRP VBD , WP VBZ RB DT NN PRP MD VB PRP . '' CD NN VBZ IN NNS WP VBP RB IN JJ NN IN NN NN MD VB JJ IN VBG NNS TO VB PRP$ NNP . NNS CC MD VB NNS VBG IN DT NNS , WDT MD VB $ CD DT NN . NNP NNP NNP , IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP , RB VBZ IN JJ NN , CC VBZ DT JJ NNP . NN JJ CD IN DT JJ VBG NNS TO NN NN IN VBG WP VBZ TO VB NNS TO VB NNP . NNS . 
DT NN , NNP NNP VBD , VBZ TO VB DT NNS IN . CC JJS NN WDT MD VB VBZ IN NN TO VB IN PRP$ NN CC VBP , '' VBP DT JJ NN IN PRP . '' RB , PRP MD VB JJ . '' RB VBG NNS IN DT NN MD VB DT NN IN NN NN , NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP NNS WP VBP NNS IN CD NN '' DT JJ NN NN IN JJ NN IN NNP NNP VBZ DT NNS IN NNS . PRP VBP NNS IN NNS CC NNS , PRP VBP PRP TO NNS , PRP VBP IN CC VB RB RBR JJ NN IN NNS IN JJ NNS VBP VBZ JJ CC JJ . CC NNP NN VBZ IN DT JJ NN WDT VBZ PRP VBP TO DT NN PRP VBP , '' NNP NNP VBD . MD VB PRP DT NN . WRB EX VBZ DT NN IN NN , PRP VBZ RB DT NN IN JJS NN . IN DT NN VBZ , '' NN NNS , PRP VBP DT NNP , PRP VBP TO VB DT NN NN , '' DT NN IN JJS NN VBZ TO VB PRP RP . PRP VBP NN TO VB IN VBG . '' 
DT CD NN , IN NN , VBD RB JJ , CC IN JJ NNS DT NN IN DT NN IN CD IN DT JJ NN NN MD VB PRP JJ IN NNS VBZ VBN NNS IN DT JJ NNS TO VB TO VB IN PRP VBP VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN RB . NNP NN NNS VBP VBN VBG IN JJ NN NN IN NNS , CC PRP VBP PRP MD RB VB DT JJ NN NN , IN DT NNS IN JJR IN DT NN . NNP NNPS VBP IN DT NN VBZ RB VBG RB , CC PRP VBP VBG PRP$ JJ NNS IN NN IN JJR NN CC NN . NNP NNP DT NN VBD DT NNS IN DT NN POS JJ NN NNS : NNP , NNP , NNP , NNP CC NNP : TO VB TO DT NNP NNP IN NNP TO VB NNS IN JJ NN , VBD NNS IN NN IN DT NN WP VBD IN NN IN DT NNP NNP VBZ RB RB VBN DT NN . 
NNP NNP , RB , VBD DT RB RBR JJ NN : NN IN DT JJ IN NN WDT RB VBD IN DT NN IN NN , NN CC JJ JJ NNS . NNP NNP VBD DT NNS IN PRP MD RB VB JJ PRP$ NNS MD VB VBG IN DT NN VBD CC IN PRP MD VB TO VB TO DT JJ NN NN . DT NNS RB VBP DT NN IN NNS JJ TO DT NN NNS , VBG NNS CC NNS . PRP VBP RB VBN VBN IN IN IN CD NN IN VBG NNS , DT NN VBZ IN DT JJ NN : DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NN . DT NN , WDT VBZ JJ IN JJ NN NNS , MD RB VB VBN IN VBG NNS CC RB VBZ DT NN NN TO JJ NN . EX VBZ RB NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN NN NNS VBD RP IN DT NN NN IN DT NN . NN IN DT NNS IN JJ NNS VBN NNS IN JJ NNS , WP$ JJ NN VBZ PRP RB JJ . CC JJ NNS VBP VBN NNS PRP MD VB NN . 
JJR NNS VBP DT RB JJ NN IN NN TO VB IN , CC DT JJ NN VBZ RB RB JJ IN DT NN . IN JJ VBZ JJR NNS VB RB , PRP VBD , PRP MD VB PRP IN PRP VBP CD , PRP VBD , CC RB VB TO VB RP PRP . NNP NNP RB VBZ JJR NNS TO VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN NN , VBG , '' VBP IN IN JJS NNS , DT NNS VBP DT NNS . '' NNP NNP NNP , NN IN NNS CC NN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBD PRP VBD VBN TO NNS IN NN NNS TO VB TO VB DT NN IN NN IN NNS IN CD . CD VBP RB VBG RB , '' PRP VBD . CC PRP VBD IN NN MD VB NNS CC VB NN NNS . NNS IN NN NNS , PRP VBD , VB DT NN IN NN . DT NNS VBP RB JJR NN IN NNS VBP IN NN , CC VBP RB VBN VBN IN NN NN . 
NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNPS IN DT NNP , VBD DT NN POS JJ NN . '' NN VBD RP VBG JJ TO VB RP DT NN RB IN DT NN IN NNS VBD PRP MD RB VB VBN , '' PRP VBD . NN VBD RP VBG DT NN NN WRB PRP VBP WRB TO VB IN DT JJ IN DT NN . '' DT NN NNS RB VBD NN . PRP VBZ DT JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NNS . '' VBP VBN JJS IN DT NNS PRP VBP TO VB . PRP VBD RB VB RP NN . PRP VBP VBG TO VB JJ NNS IN NN . PRP VBP VBG TO VB NN NN , WDT VBZ RB JJ . '' IN RB , NNS IN NNP . POS NN NN CC NN NNS RB VBD IN $ CD TO $ CD DT NN . IN DT NN , NNS MD VB VBN TO IN JJS $ CD DT NN , VBP TO NNP CD , IN DT NN VBG $ CD DT NN IN DT JJ CD NNS . 
DT RBS JJ NN RB VBN IN DT NN IN NN NN NNS VBZ VBN IN PRP VBP RB VB DT NNS IN NN NNS WDT VBP VBN DT NN IN NNS CC JJ NNS VBG DT $ CD CD IN DT NNS . DT NN MD VB IN JJS JJ NN IN JJ CC NN IN JJR IN CD CD JJ NNS WP RB VBP JJ NNS IN PRP$ NNS CC MD VB VBN IN PRP VBD IN JJ NN . CC PRP VBZ RB DT JJ NN , CC PRP MD VB JJ NN TO DT NNS WDT VBP VBN RP NNS IN NNS TO NNS WP$ NNS VBP , IN DT NN VBZ JJ , JJ TO DT NNS . DT JJ NN : IN DT NN IN NNS VBN IN DT NNP IN NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNPS , IN DT NN IN NNP : VBZ RB VB IN NNS VBP JJ IN DT NN . DT NN VBD PRP MD VB JJ NNS IN DT NN PRP WRB DT NN VBZ , CC DT NN IN PRP NNS , CC NN RB . DT VBZ IN RB JJ NN , '' DT NNS VBD , DT NN IN NNS CC JJ NNS VBP TO VB . IN DT JJ NNS VBP RB JJ , PRP VBP JJ NN CC NN IN JJ NNS CC RB VB NN TO VB CC VB DT NNS . 
NN VBZ RB JJ TO NN JJ NN VB RB IN DT NN NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , WP IN CD VBD DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , CD IN DT NN POS JJ NNS TO VB JJ JJ NN IN DT NN . JJ NNS IN DT NN VBP RB IN JJ , '' PRP VBD . MD NN , PRP VBD DT NN WP VBD CC VBD PRP$ NN . IN $ CD , PRP VBD NN , VBD CD NNS IN PRP IN DT NN NN , VBD PRP IN DT NN DT NN IN DT NN NN NN , CC IN CD NNS , PRP VBD DT IN DT NN IN PRP$ NN NNS IN DT NN NN NN VBZ TO VB . DT MD VB VBN $ CD IN DT JJ NNP , CC PRP MD VB VBN NNS TO VB DT NNS . '' VBG NNS IN NN RB VBZ PRP IN NNS WDT MD RB VB VBN IN NNS . 
DT VBZ IN DT CD JJ NNS VBN IN RB VBZ RB DT JJ NN , CC PRP VBP RB RB DT JJ NN IN DT . VB RB VBN TO VB IN PRP VBZ DT JJ NN IN VBG NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN NN IN NN CC NN IN NNP IN NNP , NNP , WDT VBD IN DT JJ NN VBN IN DT JJ NN . NNS , VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN , VBP JJ NNS IN JJ NNS , CC NNS VBP VBN VBN IN DT JJ NNS , CC RB IN JJ NN . CD IN PRP VBP RB VB RB RB , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP . DT JJ NNS RB VBP RB VB JJ NN , CC DT NN MD VB RB IN DT NNS MD RB VB PRP , PRP VBD . DT NNS VBD IN NN NN RB VBD DT NN NN , PRP VBD . NNP , NNP NNP VBD , NNP MD VB JJR NN IN NNS IN PRP VBZ TO VB DT NN RBR RB IN DT IN DT NN NNS VBP , VBG TO DT RBR JJ JJ NN . WDT MD VB DT NNS IN DT NNP NN . 
IN PRP MD JJ CD TO CD NNS , RB RB IN PRP$ JJ NNS PRP VBP VBG IN PRP$ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . WP VBZ WP PRP VBP VBN VBG IN PDT DT NNS . '' DT NNP NNP IN JJR IN CD NNS , JJ JJ NNS : NN , NN , NN CC NNS : VBP VBN NNS IN JJ NN IN DT NN , NN CC NN IN NN . CC DT NNS , VBN TO IN NNS IN NNP POS , MD RB VB JJ JJ NNS , VBG NNS CC VBG . IN CD , DT NN CC NN NN VBD NN ( NNP ) , DT JJ IN DT JJ NN IN NNS VBN IN JJ NNS . DT JJ , NN ( NNP ) , VBD VBN IN CD . NNP CC NNP NN RB RBR IN JJ NNS CC VBP DT JJR IN VBG NN NNS . PRP$ JJ NN VBZ IN PRP VBP DT NNP NNS WDT VBP NN CC NN IN , IN NN TO VB NNS , RB VBG DT NN '' NNP NNS WDT VBP DT NN NN . 
IN PDT DT NN IN NNS IN NNS CC JJ NNS IN JJ NNS , PRP VBD RB DT NN IN NN IN DT JJ NN MD VB TO VB DT JJ NN IN JJ NN NNS . RB RB , DT NNS DT NN IN CD JJ NNS IN PRP MD RB VB TO VB DT JJ NN CC VB PRP IN DT NN VBP VBG . DT VBZ RB DT RB JJ NN WDT VBZ JJ CC JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ WDT MD VB IN DT NN . IN DT CD NNS RB VBP TO VB CC VB PRP$ NN RB , PRP$ JJ NNS VBP DT NN IN JJ NN TO VB DT JJ JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT RB JJ NN NNS TO VB DT NNS RB . CC DT NN MD VB VBN IN NN . NNP MD RB VB VBN IN VBG DT RBR JJ NN IN NN : VBD JJ NN : IN VBZ NN IN JJ NNS CC VBZ JJ TO JJ NN . 
CC PRP VBZ RB RB JJ IN NNS TO VB NN IN PRP$ NN NN . NNS IN NNS CC NNS VBP RB RB VBP . NNS MD VB NNS TO VB NN NN . RB WRB NNS VBP VB TO VB PRP$ NN , NNS MD RB VB JJ NNS CC JJ JJ NNS . CD VBP IN DT NN IN NNS , CC DT NN VBZ RB VB TO VB PRP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN TO DT NNP NNP , NNP CC NNP NNP CC DT JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS CC NN NN . DT NN VBZ IN DT JJR IN PDT DT NNS IN JJ NN NN VBP PRP IN NN , NNP NNP VBD . PRP VBD IN NN IN DT NNS MD VB VBN IN NNS VBP PRP$ NN NN IN DT JJ NN . DT JJ NN TO VB NNS VBZ DT NN IN JJ NN , IN WDT DT CD JJ NNS IN DT NN NN . NN MD VB IN DT NN CC NN , CC DT NNS MD VB VBN IN DT NN , NN IN DT JJ NN NN CC VB DT NN . 
DT VBG NN IN JJ NN VBG DT JJ , JJ NN CC DT VBG DT JJ , JJ NN VBZ VBG TO DT NN DT NN , IN DT JJ NN NN VBN IN DT NNPS NNP IN JJ NNP . DT NN VBZ JJ NNS IN RB JJ . DT JJ , VBN IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP , VBZ NNS IN DT JJ , JJ NN MD VB NN , NN NN CC RB NN NN . CC VBP JJR TO VB IN RB VBN , '' DT NN VBZ . DT JJ RB NNS NNP NNP NNP CC PRP$ JJ , CC DT NNP NN VBZ RB DT NN . DT NN VBZ NN IN DT NN POS JJR NN TO VB DT NN IN NN '' IN JJ NNS , IN DT CD VBN IN NNP NNP , VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBZ DT NN IN DT NN , WDT VBZ PRP VBZ DT NN IN CD NNS CC CD NNS . NNP NNP VBD DT NNP NN VBD RB VBN IN NN IN DT NN IN JJ JJ NNS IN DT NNP VBP RB JJ . 
NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP CC NNP NNP , VBD DT NN VBD RB VBN IN DT CD JJ NN IN RB CD NNS . DT NN VBD VBN RB RB IN PRP VBD TO VB VBN IN NN , PRP VBD . IN RB , RB DT NNS IN JJ NN VBP VBN NNS IN JJ NN CC NN NNS , IN PRP VBP DT JJS TO VB CC VB NN IN . CC NNS WP VBP TO JJ NNS MD RB VB DT RBS JJ NNS , CC MD RB VB RB JJ NN NNS . TO VB DT RBR JJ NN , CD NNS VBP VBG JJ NNS IN DT NN VBN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP , CC VBP VBN PRP RB JJ TO VB NN NNS . IN PDT DT NNS WP VBD DT JJ NN NN IN JJR IN DT NN VBD VBN PRP IN PRP$ JJ , PRP VBD . DT VBZ IN JJ NNS VBP VBN NNS TO VB NN CC VB PRP RP , CC VBP RB VBN VBN IN JJ NNS . 
DT NN , CD NNPS VBP VBN NN TO VB NN NN TO PRP$ NNS . JJS IN DT NNS VB . CC DT NN IN NNS VBP DT NN VBD CC JJ , JJ TO VB RB CC JJ TO VB . NNS , '' DT NNS RB VBP DT NNS , CC DT NN VBZ IN DT JJ CC JJR MD VB VBN . IN DT NN NNS , NNS VBD DT NNS TO DT NN , DT JJ NN WDT VBZ RP IN NN WRB NNS RB VBP DT NN IN VBG RB IN PRP MD VB PRP$ JJ NNS . NNS VBP IN NN IN DT NN : JJ JJ NNS CC JJ NNS WDT MD VB VBN IN DT NN CC RB JJ NN NNS IN DT NN WDT VBP RB JJ CC RB JJ : MD VB VBG NN . NNS RB VBD PRP VBD DT NN TO DT NN , VBG DT NN RB IN JJ NNS FW NN IN WDT PRP RB VBP IN DT JJ JJ NN NN . 
NNP NNS VBP RB RB , CC DT NN POS NN VBZ DT JJ JJ . CC PRP$ JJ NN VBZ DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS IN DT NN , WDT VBP VBN RP , IN JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NN , DT NN PRP$ NN VBZ TO DT JJ NN NN . RB RB , DT NN VBZ RB VBG DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN NN VBZ RB VBN . VB DT VBZ WRB DT JJ NN : PRP MD VB DT NN , CC MD RB VB DT NN : NNS VBN IN CD NNS IN NN RB , CD IN DT JJ NN , DT JJ IN DT JJ NN . IN DT NN , DT CD NN NNS IN DT CD NNS VBP VBN RB IN JJ NNS , IN DT NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN NN . IN CD IN DT NNS VBZ TO VB DT JJ CC JJ IN JJ TO JJ , NN : DT JJ NNS . DT CD CC CD NNS DT RB VBD IN DT NN IN NN . '' IN DT JJ NN , JJS NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN NN VBD DT RB RBR JJ CD NN IN RB . 
VBG DT NN NNS VBP IN VBG NNS WDT VBP JJ JJ NNS , DT NN IN NNS VBN NN IN PRP VBD VBN JJ TO VB DT RB VBN NN VBG JJ NN TO DT JJ NN IN CD NN . NNS IN JJ NNS VBP DT JJ NN , WDT VBZ IN DT NN NNP , VBZ RB VB DT NN IN NNS RB JJ NN , WDT JJ NNS VBP VBZ DT NN , IN DT NN IN JJ NNS IN NNS . CC VBP DT JJ NNS RB VBP RP DT NN IN DT NN CC NNS IN NN NN IN DT NN IN NN , DT JJ . CC DT NN TO VB DT JJR NN VBZ JJ IN DT VBG NN IN NN NNS TO VB RP NNS WDT NN VBD NNS , CC IN NN TO NNS IN DT JJ NN , IN NN , JJ NN , NN CC NN . CC IN DT NN IN IN NN VBZ JJ VBZ RB VBN , DT JJ NNS MD RB JJ JJ NN IN DT NN . 
CC PRP VBD IN , EX IN DT NN VBD , DT NNS MD VB IN DT NN MD VB VBN RB JJ TO DT JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NN . NN VBG JJ NN VBG IN JJ NNS VBZ IN EX VBP NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP VB . '' DT NN IN DT NN NN VBD TO VB DT NN VBN IN NNP NNP CC DT JJ NNS IN WP VBZ IN DT JJ NN . DT NNS IN DT NNS VBP WRB VBN TO JJ NNS IN NN , NNS CC DT NNS . NNS IN NNS MD RB VB DT NNS VBP RB RB RB IN VBG JJ NNS . NNS IN NNS MD RB VB DT . VBG TO NNP NNP POS NN , IN JJ NNS , DT NN IN DT NNS IN JJ NNS MD VB DT NN IN NN NNS TO DT NN , WDT VBZ RP DT NN NN WDT VBZ DT NNS . CC IN NNS IN NN , DT NN VBZ RB VBN , CC DT NNS VBP JJ . 
NNP NNP NNP NN NN , VBD NN , NNP NNP NNP NNP , NNP PRP VBP DT JJ NN IN NN . PRP$ NN VBD VBN RB IN DT NN . PRP VBD CD NNS RB . PRP VBD CD , CC PRP VBD DT NN NN . PRP VBD VBN DT NN IN PRP$ JJ NN , WDT VBD RP VBG DT NN . CC PRP VBD DT JJ NN IN PRP$ JJ NN . PRP VBD RB CD NNS , RB JJ , CC MD RB VB VBN VBN IN DT NN . IN PRP VBD VBN IN PRP VBD CD TO VB PRP$ NN , PRP RB MD RB VB VBG IN PRP RB RB . PRP VBD DT NN NN , DT VBN NN NNS , IN NN CC JJ NN CC VBG DT JJ NN IN NN CD . CD NN IN NNS IN NN NN VBP DT VBN NN NNS . NN VBZ RB IN DT NN IN NN PRP$ JJS NN IN JJ NN . PRP MD RB VB DT NN RB VBG PRP . 
NNP NNP IN NNP , WP RB VBZ DT NNP POS NN NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBZ PRP VBZ IN NN VBZ DT NN IN DT NN RB IN DT NN . PRP NNS IN VBG NN MD VB DT IN NNP POS . CC POS IN VBG TO VB RP NN NN CC VBG NNS TO VB JJR , '' PRP VBZ . PRP VBZ TO DT JJ NN WDT VBZ IN NN , DT NN VBN IN DT JJ NN NNS IN DT NN IN NNP POS NNS , IN DT JJ NN . PRP$ NNS RB VBP DT JJR NN IN DT NNP POS NN . DT WP VBP JJ NN NN VBP VBN NNS . '' DT WP VBP VB IN DT NN VBP VBN NNS . '' DT CD NNS RB VBP VBN RBR RB , RBR JJ TO VB IN JJ CC NN MD VB VBG RB IN NNP POS . IN DT CD NNS VBP TO VB , PRP MD VB IN IN DT JJ NN NNP POS NNS MD VB VBN IN JJR IN CD NN , DT NN VBD NN NNS VBP VBN IN JJ NNS . 
NNS NNS VBP VBN RB VBG DT JJ NN . NNP NNP , DT JJ NN IN NN NN IN DT NNPS IN NNP NNP , DT NN IN CD CD NNS , VBD PRP VBD VBN . '' VBP PRP VBD DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT NNS VBD IN DT VBG NN IN DT JJ JJ NN . IN CD NNS CC NNS VBD VBN IN CD CC RB CD TO CD IN PRP RB VBD IN PRP VBD DT JJ JJ NN IN NNS IN NN , NNS CC NNS , NN NN CC VBG NNS . DT NNS VBD VBN IN JJ NN NN CC JJ NN NN , CC PRP VBD NNS IN NN . JJ NNS VBP VBN JJ TO VB DT NN NN IN DT NNS , CC WRB PRP VBD PRP MD VB DT NN TO VB , DT NNS VBD JJ , VBG IN DT NN NN IN DT NN CC VBD VBG PRP RP . 
DT JJ NN IN CD NNS VBN IN DT NNP IN NNP IN DT NN IN NNP VBZ VBN IN NN NN NNS VBP RB VB DT JJ NNS . JJ NNS IN NN NNS VBP RB RB JJ CC DT NNP . NN VBZ RB JJ TO PRP$ NN , '' DT NN VBD IN DT NN TO VB VBN JJ IN NNP . '' , PRP MD VB DT NN IN DT NNS VBP JJ IN IN PRP$ NNS . '' DT NN , JJR IN CD NNS RB , VBZ DT JJ NN NN '' IN NNS VBZ PRP$ NN TO VB CC VB CC TO VB TO NNS CC VBG CC NN IN DT NN NN . EX VBZ JJ NN IN DT JJ NNS , WDT MD VB JJ CC NN CC WDT RB VBP NNS TO VB JJ NN . CC DT NN VBZ IN JJ NNS IN EX VBZ DT NN TO VB IN DT NNS VBP JJ NN , NN , CC DT JJ JJ NN . NNS WP VBP PRP$ NNS VBP VBN PRP TO VB DT CC VBN NNS VBP VBN JJ NNS IN DT VBG NN IN NN NN . 
IN NN NNS VBG RB , NNS VBP VBG DT JJR NN IN PRP$ NNS POS NNS , VBG DT VBN CC JJ NN WDT VBZ RB RB JJ NNS CC JJ CC NN . IN NNS RB VBP RB TO VB VBG NN CC VBG NN NNS , JJ VBP VBG JJR TO VB NN CC NN NNS TO VB DT NN NNS IN VBG VBN . IN DT NN VBG JJR CC RBR JJ IN DT NN , JJ NN VBZ DT VBG JJ NN IN NN IN NNS TO DT JJ . NNS VBP VBN DT NN IN , CC PRP$ NNS VBP VBN NN IN JJ NNS VBP VBN DT JJ NN IN CC DT NN IN JJ NNPS CC DT JJ NNS RB VBN IN JJ NN . JJ NNS VBP VBN JJ NNS TO VB DT NN , CC JJR IN PRP VBP VBG DT NN . IN DT JJ CD POS , CD NN IN NNS VBD RB , VBG TO NNS VBN JJ NN , CC IN CD , WDT VBD VBN TO CD NN : CD CD , IN DT JJS NN . NNS VBD IN RB JJ , CC JJ , VBD IN CD NN TO CD NN IN DT JJ NN . 
DT NN POS NN VBZ IN NNS IN JJ NNS , IN NNP NNP VBZ NNP NNP POS NN IN PRP$ NNS . IN DT NN JJ JJ CC JJ NN NNS , JJS IN WP MD VB RB IN DT NN IN NN , VBD NNP NNP VBD IN PRP RB TO NN NNS , VBN IN JJ NNS IN VBG PRP NN IN PRP$ NN NN , CC VBD NN JJ IN DT NN . NN NNP VBZ RB JJ IN DT NNP , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN WP RB VBN IN NNS IN NNP NNP POS JJ NNS CC VBZ IN DT NN NN IN TO PRP$ . DT NN WP VBD DT NN VBD , '' VBD RB VB PRP$ NN MD VB VBN VBG IN PRP . '' NNP NNP VBD TO VB VBN . PRP$ NN , NNP NNP , MD RB VB IN PRP VBD VBN DT JJS NN IN NNP NNP . '' . NNP MD RB VB IN PRP VBZ RB VBN NN IN IN DT NN IN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN IN DT NN VBP RB VB PRP IN PRP VBZ DT NN . CC IN MD VB VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN VBD RB IN PRP VBD VBN . '' 
RB RBR VBZ VBN IN DT JJ NNS WDT VBP VBN IN VBG DT NNS IN NNS IN NN . IN NN , RB RB VBZ DT NN VBG VBN TO VB IN DT IN DT NNS VBP NN NN . PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN NNS . NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , WP VBZ VBG DT NN , VBD IN JJ NN NNS VBP DT JJ NN NN , CC IN DT NN NNS IN PRP VBP VBN . IN DT VBN NNS VBP VBN NN , PRP$ JJ NN VBZ RB . NNP NNP POS NN VBZ TO VB JJ JJ NN NNS JJ NNS WDT VBP VBD TO VB RB JJ IN NN CC VB WP VBZ TO DT NN NN . PRP MD VB VBG DT JJ NN IN DT NNS IN DT NN . EX VBP NNS IN PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . NNS VBP DT JJ NNS , CC PRP RB VBP JJ . CC DT JJ JJ NN VBZ RB JJ . PRP VBP , IN , CD NNS , CC PRP VBP RB RB VBN . '' 
CD IN PRP$ JJS JJ NN NNS VBZ DT JJ : RB IN PRP CC IN PRP$ NN . NN IN NN PRP MD VB PRP RP , VBG RP DT JJ NNS IN JJ NNS VBN TO PRP IN DT NN NN , DT NN CC VB JJ NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP . NNP NNP POS NN VBD VBN TO VB NNS CC NN NNS , TO VB PRP NN CC JJ NN . CC , RBS JJ , TO VB PRP VB NN . PRP VBD DT JJ , JJ NN , RB RB JJ IN DT NNS VBG DT NN NN . PRP VBP RP IN NNS CC VB PDT DT JJ NN , IN NN CC NN CC NN . NNP NNP POS NN VBD RB DT NN PRP$ NN VBD TO VB . CC , PRP VBD , PRP VBD DT NN RP . IN NN , PRP RB VBD RB , CC DT VBD IN PRP$ NN MD RB VB IN NNP NNP CC NNP NNP POS RB JJ NN , RB IN DT NN . 
JJR IN CD NNS VBP VBN VBG NNS VBN IN JJ NN NN , VBG JJ NN , NN NN , NN NN CC JJ NNS . CC IN IN DT NNP POS VBD NN NN VBG IN DT NN , PRP MD VB JJ TO VB WRB JJ IN DT VBD DT NN CC IN WP NNS . IN NNS IN WDT DT NNP VBZ RB VBN JJ NNS IN DT NNS , VBG NN , NN TO JJ NNS CC VBD NN VBN IN JJ NN , DT NN VBZ NN IN DT NN . NNP IN DT NN IN NNS POS NNS CC PRP$ NNS IN NNP , NNP NNS NN VBD RP DT NNS IN DT NN , WDT VBD VBN IN CD NNS IN DT NNP NNP , DT JJ NN NN VBN IN DT NNP NNP . '' VBZ RB DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBZ DT NNP NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP . NNP NNP CC JJ NNS VBD PRP VBD DT NN POS NNS CC VBD IN JJR NNS VBD VBN IN DT JJ JJ NN MD VB VBN . PRP RB VBD DT NNP MD VB TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN IN NNS CC NNS IN NNS WP MD VB NNS IN NN CC JJ NNS , RB IN DT NN POS NNS RB VBP NNS IN PRP$ NN IN NN . 
NNP NNP MD VB JJ , CC PRP$ NN MD VB JJR JJ IN VBD RB VBN . DT NN VBG IN CD JJ NNS VBN JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP VBD IN DT NN TO VB JJ NNS IN DT NN MD VB RB IN NN TO NN . CC DT JJ NN VBG DT RBS JJ CC DT JJS VBD JJ . NNP VBD , DT NNS WP VBD JJR NN VBG DT NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT NN VBD JJR IN NN IN DT WP VBD RBR RB . NNS WP VBD JJR VBD RBR NNS , CC PRP VBZ JJ TO VB DT NN VBZ RB DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN CC DT NN IN NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP , WP VBD RB VBN IN DT NN NN . IN DT RBR JJ RB VBZ IN VBZ DT JJ , JJ , JJ NN . '' 
JJ IN PRP VBP , DT NN NNS VBD RB VBN TO VB DT JJ NNS RB RB IN PRP VBD JJ TO VB DT NN IN PRP$ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . IN JJ , JJ NNS VBP VBN TO NNS WP VBP RB JJ TO VB NN NNS , DT WP MD RB VB DT JJ NNS , DT WP MD RB VB DT NN IN VBG IN DT NN IN JJ NNS , CC NNS WP VBP RB RB IN DT NN POS JJ NN NNS . TO VB VB DT NN IN NN NN , NNP NNP MD VB DT NN IN PRP$ NNP VBZ DT NN . CC VB JJ NN NN IN PRP$ NNP CC NN NNS , WDT VBP CD NNS VBN IN DT NN CC NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBP DT NN TO VB NNS RB RB TO DT , IN RB JJR . '' IN NN MD RB VB , IN DT PRP MD VB PRP IN VBG NN , '' PRP VBD , '' PRP VBP RB VB IN PRP MD VB PRP DT JJ NN IN NN . '' 
NNP NNP VBD PRP VBZ NNP NNP NNP TO NNP IN JJ NNS , JJ IN PRP VBG TO VB IN NN CC RB , RB VBN NNS CC NNS . PRP RB VBD PRP VBZ JJ NN IN DT JJ NNS IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNS . CC PRP VBD IN IN NN NN VBD VBN IN PRP$ NNP NNP NNS JJ NNS RB , PRP RB VBD TO PRP$ NN IN NNP IN JJ NN . PRP VBZ RB VBN IN NN : WP MD PRP VB . '' NNP NNP VBD , VBG , '' RB PRP VBP RB VB NN JJ , IN PRP VBP VBG NNP NNP NNP . '' 
NNP , CD , VBZ DT NN : DT RB JJ , JJ NN . DT RB NN IN PRP$ NN CC WRB PRP MD VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN VBZ NN PRP VBZ IN DT NN . DT VBZ RB , RB RB , PRP VBZ VBG IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN IN WDT NN NN VBZ DT JJ NN . '' NN VBZ VBN PRP RB , '' PRP VBZ IN PRP VBP VBG CD NN IN DT NNP NNP NNS , DT JJ JJ NN IN DT JJ NN NN IN DT JJ NN NN . CC RB VBP RB VBN JJ TO VB RP DT JJ NN NN , CC PRP VBP JJ PRP VBZ . DT VBZ NN IN PRP$ JJ NN TO VB PRP . '' DT NN NNS VBP VBN NNP RB VBD NNS : PRP VBP PRP$ TO VB DT NN IN NN PRP CC DT JJ NN , DT NN VBN NNP NNP , VBP IN DT NN . PRP VBP IN DT JJ NNS IN WDT PRP CC NNP VB RP IN DT NNS , VBG TO PRP$ NNS CC RB IN , MD PRP VB JJ : CC RB VBD DT NNS IN DT NN POS NN . CC VBP TO VB DT RB JJ NN , '' VBZ NNP , WP VBZ DT NN IN JJ NNS CC DT JJ NN . CC PRP VBP VBN TO VB PRP , TO VB RP DT NN . PRP VBP TO VB IN 
IN PRP VBD PDT DT NNS WP VBP DT JJ NNS TO NN , PRP MD VB PDT DT NNS WP VBP RBS JJ , '' PRP VBD . CC NNS VBN RB IN PRP VBD IN NNS CC NNS IN NN . '' DT NNS CC NNS RB VBD DT NN DT JJ NNS MD VB IN NNS . NN IN DT NNS IN VBG NN IN NN NN , PRP VBP , MD VB NNS TO VB IN RB DT IN JJ NN IN NN NN MD VB DT NNS , IN DT NN IN JJ NNS VBP RB RB VBN DT NNS IN JJ NNS . IN NN , DT NNS VBP IN DT NNS MD VB NNS CC NNS TO VB DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS , IN JJ CC NN , TO JJ NN . CC NN IN NNS VBP , UH , PRP VBP IN NNS , PRP VBP JJ , PRP MD VB DT NNP NNP CC DT JJ NN CC DT NN NN , '' '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP . VBZ JJS NNS VBP RP IN JJ NNS IN PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN IN DT NN CC NN . PRP VBZ JJR TO VB DT NN IN DT NN . '' 
CC WP RB NN IN DT NN . MD PRP VB PRP VBD CC VBG IN DT JJ NN . WP VBZ DT JJ NN IN VBG VBD NN , VBG WP MD VB JJ NNS IN DT NN CC PRP$ NN , CC VBG TO VB RB TO DT NN CC DT NN WDT VBZ VBN VBN . WP VBZ JJ VBZ DT NN CC VBG NN TO DT NN IN NNS VBP VBG JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP NNP , NN IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP IN DT NNP NNP NNP . NNS VBP VBG TO VB WP NN VBZ IN IN DT NN NN . WDT VBZ DT NN NN , DT JJ NN . '' NNP NNP VBD . VB PRP JJ IN NN IN NN NN CC NNS . WRB JJ JJ VBZ PRP TO VB NN . '' IN NN , EX VBP JJR NNS IN NN IN DT NNS VBZ RBR . IN NN , PRP VBZ IN DT NN VBZ JJR , CC NN VBZ RB DT NN IN DT JJ . CC , IN NN , PRP VBZ IN EX VBZ JJR VBG IN NN . IN VBG NNS MD VB NNS IN DT NN WRB PRP VBP RBR JJ TO NN , PRP MD RB VB NNS WDT MD RB VB VBN VBN IN DT NN POS NN . 
CC DT NN VBZ , NN IN DT MD VB RB RB JJ IN PRP VBZ IN IN DT NNS JJ NN VBZ RB DT NN . IN DT NNP . NNS JJ NN IN NN , CC RB IN DT NN VBD IN DT NN , NNS MD VB NN IN DT NN RBR CC CC IN PRP VBP . NNP , WDT VBZ RB VBN IN JJ NN , MD RB VB VBN RB IN DT NN , IN PRP VBZ RBR JJ IN NN IN JJ NNS . NNS VBN IN NN IN NN IN DT NN VBN NN , WDT VBZ VBN VBN IN CD IN DT NN IN NN CC JJ NNS CC RB IN DT NN , VBP RB JJ IN DT JJR IN CD NNS IN DT NN . ( DT JJ NN IN NN VBZ IN PRP VBZ JJR CC VBZ RBR JJ IN NN : DT NN WP VBZ PRP MD VB RB JJ IN CD NNS RB . ) 
DT JJ NN , NN CC : NNS MD VB : NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP MD VB VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN . PRP VBZ IN NNP NNP IN DT CD POS : NN , IN JJ JJ NNP NNP NNS , TO JJ NN . NNP IN PRP$ NN NNS VBP JJ CC JJ , IN JJ NN CC NNS POS NNS VBD IN NNP . PRP$ NN NN VBZ JJ , CC DT VBG NNS VBP IN RB NN IN DT JJ JJ NN POS . CC RB , NNP VBZ VBN DT NN TO VB IN NN NN IN NNP NNP , IN IN PRP$ JJ NNS CC JJ NN IN JJ NN , CC DT NN NNS NNS PRP VBZ . NN VBZ RB VBN DT NN . CC RB , JJ NNS VBP VBN VBG IN NNP . PRP VBZ VBG DT JJ NN NN NN IN CD NNP CC NNP NNP , NN JJ TO JJ JJ NNS . DT JJ NN VBZ VBG DT NN NN : JJ NNS , IN JJ NNS , VBP VBG VBG JJ NNS , JJ NN VBZ VBG VBN TO VB , CC NNS POS NNS VBP RB JJ CC JJ . IN JJ NNS , PRP VBZ RB VBN DT JJ , JJ NN IN NN NN NNS IN NNP CD NNP , JJ IN JJ NN CC DT NN WDT VBZ NNS , NNS CC JJ NNS . 
DT NN IN NN NN VBD RB . CC VBP DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN CC NNP NNP POS NN . CC VBP EX VBZ DT JJ NN IN PRP . '' RB RB , NNP NNP VBD , NN NN VBZ RB VB JJS IN NN NN IN DT NNP NNPS . DT NNS VBP RB VB NN TO VB . NNS WDT VBP IN NN NN IN CC RB DT NN VBZ VBG NNP CC DT JJ NN : PRP VBP VBN IN DT NN IN DT NN POS NN . NNP NNP VBD IN PRP VBD DT JJ NNS , VBG NNS TO VB NN NN IN IN JJ DT NN IN JJ IN DT NN IN NN NNS , VBD JJ . NNP NNP NNP , JJ NN NN IN JJ JJ NNS IN NNP NNP , VBD NN IN VBG DT NN . NNP IN CD NN VBZ DT VBZ RB VB CD NN VBD DT JJ , PRP VBD RP . 
POS NN VBZ DT RBS JJ NN IN DT NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC VBP VBG IN DT NNS CC NNS IN JJ JJ NN CC VBG DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT NN CC IN PRP$ NN IN JJ NNS . DT NN NN VBZ VBN IN IN CD JJ NNS . DT IN DT NNS VBZ TO VB DT JJ NNP : JJ CC JJ NN : NN IN JJ NNS IN DT NN CC WRB PRP VBD JJ . '' NN : NNP CD , CD , NNP DT NN IN DT NNS NN IN DT NN IN DT NN IN DT JJ NNP NN CC JJ NNP VBD IN DT NNS DT NN IN WDT PRP VBD . PRP VBD DT JJ NN NNP , RB DT JJ NN . DT NN RB VBD DT NN IN DT NN NN IN DT NNP IN NNP , NNP , WP VBD IN DT NN . PRP VBZ NNP NNP , RB NNP . 
DT NN VBZ RB DT NN IN DT JJ JJ NN . RB , IN JJ NNS IN JJ NN IN NN , NN NNS VBP VBN RB VBG TO JJS NNS CC IN DT NN VBP RB RB JJ . RB , JJ NN NNS IN NNP NN CC JJ NN MD VB RB RBR JJ , VBD PRP RB IN DT NNS JJ NN NNS VBP IN JJ NNS . DT NN NN VBZ VBN TO VB IN DT NN . CC PRP VBP NN RB JJ TO VB DT MD VB VBN IN PRP$ NN CC VB NN PRP VBP IN DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN CC JJ NN IN NNP . NN RB VBZ CD NN NNS , CD IN NNP NNP NNP , VBN IN NNP NNP , NNP , DT JJ IN NN , DT JJ JJ NN NN VBN IN NNP , NNP POS NN TO VB NNP IN PRP$ NN VBN NN NN VBZ RB TO VB CC VBZ RB VB PRP$ VBG JJ NN , '' VBD NNP NNP , NN NN CC JJ NN IN NN . 
NN CD RB VBD VBG IN DT NNS POS NNS , PRP VBD . CC VBD RB JJ NNS IN NN NNS IN PRP$ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC EX VBZ DT NN IN NN NN . '' VBD NN VBZ RB VBN VBN TO VB NNS IN PRP VBZ RB JJ , CD NN NN IN NN . DT NN VBN IN JJ NN MD VB RB JJ NNS . PRP RB VBZ WRB PRP VBZ . '' PRP VBP IN CC IN NN , PRP RB VBZ DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN WP VBZ DT NN IN NNP , DT NN IN NNP IN NNS JJ NN CC NN IN NNS CC NN . '' VBP DT NN IN JJ NN CC NN . '' NNP NNP NNP VBD IN IN DT NN VBD JJ , POS NN VBZ CD CD NNS , WDT VBZ , IN NN , DT NN IN DT JJ NN . '' DT VBZ IN PRP MD VB CD CD NNS IN PDT DT JJ CD NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN TO VB IN VBG JJ NNS . 
JJ NNS VBP DT NN DT RB RB : DT NN CC JJ NN IN DT NNS WDT VBP RP IN DT NN CD NNS CC JJR IN , VBP , DT JJ NN , DT VBG NN VBG NN CC DT JJ NN RB IN DT JJ NNS . NNS NNS VBP PRP JJ NN IN NN NN . VBZ VBP PRP DT NN IN RB JJ NNS IN VBG RP NNS MD VB DT NN . IN DT NN VBZ JJ RB , PRP MD VB DT JJ NN CC RB VB DT JJ NN . IN IN DT NN , DT NNS MD RB RB VB IN DT NNS CC NNS VBD VBN IN DT NN : NN , IN NN , CC VBG NNS : VBN IN NNS IN . CD VBP VBN NNS VB PRP RP WP VBP PRP VBP DT NN , '' VBD NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP CC DT NN IN NNS NN . 
NNP NNP NNP NNP CC JJ , NNP NNP ( NNP ) NNP NNP PRP VBP VBN IN DT JJ NN IN EX VBZ DT NN TO VB IN JJ JJ NN NNS VBP RB . CC PRP VBZ NN TO VB IN RP JJ . PRP VBD PRP IN DT NN IN NNS , CC PRP RB VBD VBN IN IN DT NN . NNP VBD IN , EX VBP RB NNS VBG IN CD NN IN NNS VBP PRP$ JJ NN NNS . IN PRP VBZ DT JJ NN . PRP VBP RB VB PRP , CC PRP VBP RB VB IN PRP VBP PRP RB JJ IN PRP MD . VB IN PRP VBZ DT NN WDT VBZ IN VBG IN DT IN DT JJ NN . IN PRP VBD IN JJ IN VBD NN VBD VBN TO VB NN CC NN , PRP MD RB RBR RB VB PRP . DT NN VBZ DT NN IN NNS IN CD VBG NNS DT CD CC CD NNS . IN NNS IN PRP$ CD POS , PRP VBP , VBP POS NN IN PRP . IN PRP VBZ RB VB , PRP MD VB IN DT NN IN VBG JJ NNS . 
RB VBD DT JJ JJ NN WP VBD TO PRP IN DT NN NN NN , '' VBD PRP$ NN , NNP , WP RB VBD PRP IN IN PRP . IN DT JJ CD NNS , NNP NNP POS NN VBD , PRP VBD NN , JJ CC JJ PDT DT NN , CC NNS VBD PRP VBD NN CC NNP . PRP VBZ JJ NN IN PRP$ NN IN PRP VBP IN JJ NNS , '' PRP VBD . NNP , JJ NN VBD RB WP NNP NNP VBD VBG IN . IN VBG IN JJ NN NN VBZ DT VBG NN IN NN NNS , PRP VBD TO VB PRP TO VB RP PRP$ JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN . IN NNS , JJ CC NNS MD VB PRP$ NN VBZ CD TO CD NN IN VBG CD NN JJR IN PRP VBD , WRB MD RB PRP . '' VBP RB RB CD IN DT NNS WP VBZ , '' , CD JJR NNS CC PRP MD VB , '' '' VBD NNP NNP , CD , WP VBZ DT JJ NN IN NNP IN PRP$ NNP NNP NN . RB IN PRP VBZ VBN TO DT NN CC VBZ RB VBN RP IN NN NN , PRP VBZ RBR IN DT NN IN DT NN '' NN . CC VB RB JJ IN PRP VBD IN CD , '' PRP VBD . VBG CC JJ JJ RB IN PRP . '' NNP NNP VBZ NN IN DT JJ NN IN NNS , NNS , NNS CC JJ JJ NNS WP VBP IN VBG DT TO VB ( CC RB TO NN , NN CC NN , RB ) MD VB DT NN TO NN . 
VB PRP$ NN , '' NNP NNP VBD , NNS WP VBP JJ CC JJ , VBG TO JJ NN , RB VBP NN NNS DT IN JJ JJ NNS WP VBP JJ . '' IN JJ NNS , WP DT JJ NNS MD VB VBN JJ , CC IN JJS NN , VBZ IN NN MD RB VB RB JJ IN DT NNS MD VB PRP TO IN NNS IN VBG PRP JJ NN , CC IN EX VBP DT NNS IN NNS TO VB JJ , VBG DT NN IN NN NN , NN CC RB DT NNS IN NN . NNS VBP CD CD TO CD CD NNS WP VBP RB RB JJ IN DT , '' NNP NNP VBD . CD DT IN PRP VBD DT JJ NNS DT NN , EX MD VB JJ NN NNS . '' DT JJ NN VBZ IN JJ NN IN RB CD NNS DT NN MD IN NN NN PRP VBP JJ , VBG IN WP PRP VBP . IN PRP VBP NNS VBZ , '' DT JJ NN , '' '' VBD NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN NN IN DT NNP NNP IN NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP NNP . '' '' CC IN PRP VBP CD IN DT NNS RB VBG NN , RB PRP MD VB TO VB PRP RP DT RB RBR . '' CC PRP MD VB PRP DT , IN DT NN NNPS VBD DT JJ NN , PRP MD VB DT NN JJR NN IN DT NN . '' 
VBG IN NN NN RB RB RB IN DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS . IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , EX VBD NN IN NNS MD VB . NNP NNS VBD DT NN WDT JJ NN VBD TO VB . CD NN VBD NNS IN IN PRP VBD RB VB PRP$ NNS , PRP MD VB PRP$ NNS VBN . NN IN NN RB VBD PRP DT NN . NNS IN NN VBN JJ JJ NNS TO VB TO VB PRP$ NN . IN DT NN VBN IN DT CD POS CC CD POS , DT NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP VBD IN NNS CD TO CD JJ JJ NN VBD DT CD NN JJR NN IN VBG IN NN NN IN DT VBG NN RBR JJ IN DT NN . NNS IN NNP VBD DT NNS . CC DT NNS VBD IN NNS RB VBD TO VB IN RB JJ NNS PRP VBD VBN IN JJ NN . NNS VBD IN NN , RB IN NNS IN PRP$ CD POS , VBD VB JJ NNS CC VBD TO JJ JJ NNS IN NNS WDT VBD RB JJ . NNS IN JJ NN IN NNS JJ DT NNS IN NNS IN VBG NN RB RB JJ IN JJ NN . 
PRP$ NN VBZ RB VBN . RB RB VBP JJ NNS , IN NN , JJR NN IN PRP$ JJ NNS ( IN NN NN ) , CC DT NNS WP VBP PRP MD RB RB VBP DT JJR CC DT RBR JJ NN IN DT VBG NN IN NNP JJ TO VB JJ NNS . IN CD , IN NN , WRB DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP VBD NN NNS IN PRP$ NN IN VBG NN IN PRP VBD VBN CC JJ , CD NN IN NNS VBG VBD PRP VBD '' '' CC WP '' RB TO VB RB . JJ NN IN NNS CC JJ NNS VBN NN IN VBG DT NN . CC RB CD NN IN DT NNS IN DT NN CC CD NN IN DT NNS CC NNS VBD VBN JJ NNS . RB , IN DT CD NN IN NNS WP VBP TO DT NNP IN NNP NNP , CD NN VBD PRP MD VB JJ JJ NN , IN RB CD NN RB VBD DT JJ NN . DT JJ IN VBG DT NN IN NN NNS IN JJ NNS VBZ RB RB RBR JJ . CD CD NN , IN NN , VBD IN IN JJR IN CD NN IN DT NNP , NN NNS CC JJ NNS VBG IN JJ NNP VBD NNS , CD NN VBD PRP MD RB VB JJ IN VBG NNP , CC DT CD NN VBD JJ . 
DT NN IN NNP IN DT NN , PRP VBD , '' VB DT NN IN NNS WP VBP IN RB JJ NNS IN PRP VBD RB VB TO VB IN TO VB IN NN JJR , WDT MD VB PRP$ NNS RB RB IN PRP$ NN . '' CD NN IN DT JJ NNS VBZ IN , IN NNP , WDT NNS RB VBD RB DT NN , NNS IN NN MD VB VBN CD NNS DT NN . CD NNS DT NN VBZ DT NN JJR IN CD NNS RBR JJ IN RB DT NN IN JJ NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . DT NNS VBP VBN IN NNS IN NNP NN VBG PRP RB . CC NNP NNP NNS IN VBG NNS IN VBG TO DT NN , RB IN PRP VBZ DT JJ NNS TO VB DT NN , IN DT NN IN NNP VBZ RB JJ RB TO VB NN . CC VBP VB PRP VBZ JJ IN NNS TO RB VB RB , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC JJ NN IN NN MD RB VB DT NN IN DT JJ NN . '' 
DT NN IN RB DT NN , NNP NNP VBD TO VB IN IN NN , RB . PRP MD VB DT NN IN DT NN CC JJ NN PRP RP IN DT JJ NN TO VB VBG DT JJ NN IN PRP$ JJR NN . RB PRP MD VB PRP$ NN , NN , VBZ TO VB PRP$ NNS , VBG RB JJ IN NN IN DT NN IN PRP MD RB VB PRP$ NN IN DT NN . NNP NNP , CD , DT JJ NN IN DT NNP NN IN NNP NNP , VBD DT NN IN JJ RB NN IN VBZ IN JJS CD NN IN NNS IN DT NN IN PRP$ NNS . CC PRP VBD DT JJ NN : DT NN NN CC DT NN : CC IN PRP$ NN PRP VBD TO VB NN . PRP$ NN VBD PRP TO VB PRP JJ , IN PRP VBD TO VB JJ , JJ NNS . CC DT JJ NN PRP VBD RP PRP$ NN NNS , PRP VBD PRP NN VBD VBN IN NN . CC JJ RB VBN , '' PRP VBD , '' PRP VBP VBG : WP VBP PRP VBG TO VB . DT VBZ RB JJ PRP . '' PRP VBD JJ IN PRP MD VB IN NN . '' PRP VBD DT NN VBZ RB . 
CC RB IN NNS IN NNS IN JJR NNS CC JJR JJ JJ NN NNS VBD RBR JJ TO VB NN IN DT NN IN DT NNS CC TO VB VBN TO DT JJ NNS , PRP$ NN NNS VBD DT JJR IN DT IN DT CC DT JJS CD NN IN NNS IN NN . IN DT JJ TO DT NN NN , EX VBD DT JJ NN IN DT NNS IN JJ JJ NN NNS CC JJ JJ NN NNS , NNP NNP VBD . DT RBR NNS JJ , PRP VBD , DT RBR JJ PRP VBD IN NNS IN JJ TO VB NN JJ NN IN CD IN DT JJ NNS , PRP VBD . CC PRP VBD RB VB DT NN , '' PRP VBD . VBG IN DT NN WDT VBD DT NNS POS NN IN DT NN , NNP NNP NNP IN DT NNP IN NNP IN NNP NNP VBD : CD NN IN NN VBZ JJ IN WRB DT JJ NN NN NN IN JJ JJ NN VBZ RB JJ IN DT JJ NN . '' 
NNP NNS , RB , VBD RB JJ IN DT CD NNS : CC RB RB JJR IN DT NNP NNP NN . NNP NNP VBZ JJ NNS IN DT JJ NN VBG DT NNP NNPS IN NNP . '' VBP NN NN VBG RB VBZ VB DT NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD , '' PRP MD VB IN NNS IN DT IN PRP VBZ DT NNS . '' DT JJ NN IN NNS VBG IN DT NNP NNP VBZ VBN RBR NN TO DT NN . DT NNP IN NNP DT NN VBD DT NN IN NNS WP VBD NN NN NNS IN NNP NNP , NNP , IN CD TO CD . PRP VBD IN DT NN NN NN NN VBN IN CD NN IN JJ NNP . NN IN DT NN VBD VBN IN CD . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN NN IN NNP NNP IN NNP NNP CC DT JJ NN IN NNP . NN , VBD DT NNS VBG . '' PRP VBD : CD VBP JJ IN IN JJ NN IN NNP . VBG CC JJ NNS , PRP MD VB DT JJ NN IN DT NN NN NN NN IN DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN . '' 
NNP RB VBZ JJ NNS IN RB CD NN IN NNS , NNP NNP VBD , IN JJ NNS IN NNP , NNP CC NNP . NNP VBG NNS TO VB JJ NNS RB VBP PDT DT NN WDT VBZ VBN IN NN . CC DT NNS , RB , VBP VBN NNS , CC DT NNS IN JJ NN VBP JJ . JJ NN MD VB VBN IN NNS WDT VBP VBN IN DT NN CC RB RB VBN IN DT NN . NNP , DT NN , CC NNP , DT JJ NN , MD VB VBN CD CC CD NNS DT NN . NNP , DT NN NN JJ TO DT NN , VBZ VBP RB IN DT NN IN CD NNS . NNS IN NN MD VB VBN NN ( NN NN NNP ) , DT JJ NN NN , WDT VBZ VBN VBN TO VB DT NN IN NN NN . CC , PRP MD VB NNS ( NNP CC NNP ) , WDT VBP VB JJ NN . NNP NN CC NN NNS VBP DT NN IN NN NNS , IN PRP VBP VBN IN RB JJR JJ NN IN NN NNS VBP , CC DT VBG NN VBZ PRP MD RB VB . VBG JJ NN , NN NN , RB JJ NN CC NN NNS VBP RB VBN VBN TO VB RBR JJ IN NNS IN VBG NN NNS . DT JJ NNS VBP VBN JJ NN MD VB VB JJ NNS , NNP NNP VBD , CC JJ NNS VBP RB . 
CC DT NN POS JJ NN IN VBG JJ NNS VBZ RBR JJ IN VBD VBN IN NNP NNP , WP VBD VBN JJ NN IN DT NN IN DT NN . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN NN IN NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP NNP NNP , VBD IN VBG NNS TO NN WDT VBZ IN DT JJ NN IN NNS . VB IN CD TO CD NN IN NNS WP VBP WP VBZ VBN TO VB JJ JJ NN , '' PRP VBD , EX VBZ NN RB RB IN DT NN VBZ VBN CC VBD RB RB VBN IN DT JJ NN . CC VBP PRP VBZ JJ IN NNS TO VB DT RB PRP VBP PRP$ NN NN , PRP RB VBP DT NN IN NN NNS , '' NNP NNP VBD . CC DT VBZ RB DT JJ NN IN DT JJ NN : IN NN VBZ RB VB , WRB VBP PRP VBG DT NNP . TO VB IN NNS . '' TO VB PRP$ NN , NNS IN DT NNP . NN TO NNS VBG IN NN NN NN VBZ JJ NN IN DT NN NNS . IN DT CD NN IN DT NN NNP , NNP NNP NNP , DT JJ NN CC NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP , VBD JJ NN NN NNS IN CD NNS CC NN NN NNS IN CD NNS IN CD NNS IN DT NNP NNPS IN CD IN CD . RB RB , NNS VBD JJS RB IN NN NN ( DT NNP NNP NN , IN NN ) VBD DT RB JJR NN IN DT NN IN NNS VBG DT JJS ( NNP , IN CD ) . 
NNP VBZ DT NN IN JJR NNS VBN TO PRP IN DT NN WDT VBZ JJR NNS IN PRP . VB NN VBZ RB RB RBR JJ . EX VBZ RB DT JJ NN NN IN JJ NN NN . PRP VBP TO VB DT JJ NN IN DT NNS WP VBP VBG DT JJ NN IN DT NN . DT VBZ RB VBG . PRP VBP DT JJ NN IN JJ NNS . PRP VBP DT NNS WP VBP RB CC RB VB DT JJS NN IN NN . PRP VBP VBG DT NN TO VB JJ NNS . NNP IN PRP VBP VBN TO VB DT JJ NN CC VB IN JJ NN IN EX VBZ RB JJ JJ NN IN PRP . 
PRP VBD IN DT NN MD VB IN JJ WRB DT NN VBZ CC EX VBP DT JJ NNS . NNP CC NNP NNP VBP RB JJ CC NNS RB , IN DT , VBP JJR NNS IN NNS IN DT NN IN DT NN . IN JJ JJ NNS , NN NN NNS VBP RB JJR , NNP NNP VBD , VBG IN DT NN NNP NNP , NNP , WRB DT NN NN NN VBZ CD IN CD . PRP VBD DT JJ NN NN VBZ RB JJ NNS , VBN TO DT NN IN DT NN . NNP NNP VBD RBR JJ NNS VBP RBR JJ TO VB NNS RB CC TO VB JJ NNS , NNS IN NN NN NN NN . PRP RB VBP RBR JJ TO VB NNS . NNP NNP NNP , DT NN IN DT NNP NNP NNP VBD IN NN VBZ DT NNS IN , VBD RB , MD RB VB VBN NNS . '' NN NNS VBP RB , NN VBZ RP , '' PRP VBD . 
CC DT NN IN NN CC NN TO VB NN VBZ RB RB . JJ NNS IN NN CC NN VBP VBN VBN TO VB JJ NN NN IN NN . IN DT JJ NN , JJ NNS , WDT VB NN NNS , VBP RB JJ . WRB VBZ DT NN . PRP VBP PRP VBD . DT CD NN PRP VBP IN JJ VBZ IN PRP VBZ NN TO VB DT NN IN IN DT NN IN DT NN . IN DT JJ NNS VBD DT NN , PRP VBP VBN PDT DT NNS IN VBG , IN NNP POS TO VB , IN JJ NN . '' DT NN IN NN NN VBZ RB VBN VBN TO VB DT NNS CC IN JJ NNS ( IN NN , NN , NN CC NN ) TO VB PRP VBZ DT NN VBD JJ . RB PRP MD VB DT JJ NNS IN DT NNS CC VB JJ NNS . PRP VBP TO VB IN PRP$ NNS VBP DT JJ CC JJ IN DT JJ NN . IN NN NNS IN NNS IN JJ NN IN DT NN , PRP MD VB VBG WRB JJ PRP RB VBP IN PRP$ JJ NN . 
NNP NNP NNS IN PRP$ JJ NN . VBD PRP RB VBD DT NN IN VBG NN , PRP VBD , PRP MD RB RB VB VBG NNS IN DT : PRP MD VB IN DT NN NN IN DT JJ NN . DT JJ NN WP RB VBZ IN NN CC RB VBZ PRP$ JJ NN , PRP VBD VBN IN PRP$ JJ NN IN DT NN IN VBG PRP$ JJ NNS . '' VBD PRP , '' NNP NNP VBD . NN VBD JJ . NNS RB VBD DT NN IN NNS . NNP NN , PRP MD VB , VB PRP$ NNP , PRP RB VBD DT NN , PRP RB VBD DT NN RB . '' DT NNS VBP RB IN RB VBN IN JJ NNS . PRP VBP RB VB VBG NNS NN . '' RB IN PRP$ JJS NNS PRP VBZ RB PDT DT NN IN NNS PRP VBD TO , VB RB IN JJ IN DT CD CC VBZ DT NN TO VB DT JJ NN NN . 
CD NNS RB DT NN , NNP NNP VBD JJ RB IN VBG VBN : DT JJ JJ VBN IN DT NN . NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN PRP$ NN POS JJ , VBD PRP IN PRP$ NN POS NN IN DT JJ NN CC , CD CC DT NN NNS RB , VBD DT VBG JJ NN IN PRP$ NN POS NN . IN NN POS NNS , NNP NNP POS NN VBZ RB JJ . VB , IN NN , NNP CC NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , NNP , WP VBD VBN IN IN JJ NN , CC NNP , CD NNS RB . NNP NNS VBD PRP$ NN , NNP NNP , TO VB , IN DT JJ NN , CD NNS JJ RB IN PRP$ NNS TO VB . IN VBG VBN , CD IN PRP VBD IN NN IN CD JJ NNS TO VB DT JJ NN NN : RB NN , CC JJ TO VB IN PRP$ NN NN IN JJR IN CD NNS . NNP NNP NNP , NN IN JJ NN IN NNP NNP NNP NNP IN NNP NNP , VBD DT CD JJS JJ NNS IN NNP NNP POS NN . DT VBG CD VBD VBN , TO VB DT NN WRB NNP NNP CC PRP$ NN , NNP , MD VB JJR NNS . NNP CC NNP VBD VBN IN NNP CD . 
IN JJ NNS , DT NN TO VB CC VB NN NN MD RB VB JJ . DT VBD NN IN VBD NN IN NN NN , NN NN CC NN NNS VBD IN DT NN VBD RB VB JJ RB TO VB VBG RP NNS . '' VBP VBN DT NNS , '' VBD NNP NNP , CD , IN NNP NNP , NNP . '' VBP VBG IN CD JJR NNS IN CD WP VBD JJ NN . PRP RB VBP DT VBZ RB JJ JJ TO VB PRP VB . PRP VBP RB JJ IN JJ NN . PRP VBP NNS WP VBP RB VBN NNS , CC PRP VBP VBG NN NN . '' NNP NNP , CD , DT JJ NN IN NNP , NNP , VBD : CD VBP RB RB VBG WP PRP VBP VBG . PRP VBP PRP$ NNS VBP VBN NNS , CC IN PRP , NN NN VBZ VBN JJ . '' NNP NNP VBZ PRP$ NN IN DT NN CC VBZ JJ NNS CC NN NNS . IN PRP VBZ IN DT JJ NN NN , CC NN IN NN NN , CC EX VBZ DT NN NN IN PRP$ NN , PRP VBZ JJ . 
DT NNS VBP VBN IN VBG DT NN IN JJ NNS VBZ JJ NNS , CC DT NNS IN DT NN VBD DT NN . RB , DT NN , WDT VBD NNS VBG CD NNS IN NNS CC CD NNS , VBD DT NN IN DT CD NN VBD RBR JJ IN DT IN NN . DT NNS VBP IN PRP$ NN POS NNS VBD DT JJ NN IN CD CC IN PRP$ NN NN VBD VBN IN DT NN IN CD NNS . PRP MD VB IN NN NN VBZ TO VB RBR IN NN CC VB IN RB JJR TO VB DT NN IN VBG NN . CC WRB DT NNS VBD PRP$ NNS TO VB DT VBG NNS IN NN PRP$ NNS VBD VBN DT NNS , PRP MD RB VB DT JJ NN . DT NNS VBP IN PRP$ NN VBZ JJ NNS . DT JJ NN NNS IN DT NN VBD JJ NNS VBD PRP$ NN IN NN NN , CC DT NNS VBP VBN IN NN NN PRP VBZ DT NN IN NN . CC RB WRB JJ NNS IN NN NN VBD VBN , DT NNS RB MD VB DT JJ NN IN NN . 
JJ JJ NNS VBP DT NN IN NNP NNP , DT JJ JJ NN , NN IN CD CC DT JJ NN WP VBD IN CD IN NN NN IN VBG NN CC DT NN NN . ( WP PRP VBP RB VB VBZ IN IN DT RB CD NNS IN NNP WP VBP VBN DT JJ NN , DT VBZ DT JJ NN . CC VBP PRP VB IN DT NN VBZ VBN IN RB : DT JJ NN NNP VBD VBZ RB RB VBN : CC VBZ RB VBN RB CC IN JJ NN : IN NNP , DT NN IN DT NN IN NN NNS CC NN VBZ IN JJR NN IN NNP , CC RB IN . ) IN PRP$ NN IN JJ NNS '' WDT MD TO VB DT JJR NN '' IN DT NN , DT NNP NNP NNP VBZ RB DT NN IN NNP NNP NN , CC RB VB '' NNS CC JJ TO JJ IN PRP NNP VB DT JJ NN WP$ NN VBZ VBN TO VB . '' 
IN NN , DT JJ JJ NN VBZ RBR NN VBG IN DT NNS IN NN , IN RB IN NN IN DT NN CC DT NN MD RB RB VB PRP$ JJ NNS ( IN NN VBD DT JJ NNS VBP JJ IN NN IN DT NN ) . RB RB , IN JJS , PRP MD RB VB RP NN IN DT NN . RB VBG IN DT VBG JJ NN , DT NN MD VB CC DT JJ NN TO VB VBN ( NNP NNP ) CC DT NN JJ IN JJ NN TO VB VBN ( NNP NNP ) . DT NN IN DT JJ NN NNS CC NNS IN DT NN IN DT JJ NN , IN DT VBN NNS VBP RB VBN . DT VBZ WRB WRB DT NNP NN VBD DT NN NN , NN CC NN VBD VBN DT JJ NN ( VBG RB DT NN : VBG DT NN ) , IN DT JJ JJ NNS CC NNS VBD VBN RP IN DT JJ . IN NN PRP VBZ RB DT NN JJR TO VB DT NN NN IN DT NN IN JJ NN IN IN DT NN CC NN , IN DT NN NN IN DT RBS JJ NNS IN DT NN NN RB RB IN DT NN NN , NN IN NN NNS , IN DT JJ NNS IN , DT NNP NNP CC NNP NNP VBP VBG IN PRP$ JJ JJ NN . 
